<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>Principles Of Political Economy</title>
      <author><name reg="Roscher, William">William Roscher</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="1">Edition 1</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>January 4, 2009</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">27698</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and
        with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it
        away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg
        License online at www.gutenberg.org/license</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
      <language id="la"></language>
      <language id="de"></language>
      <language id="fr"></language>
      <language id="it"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2009-01-04">January 4, 2009</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Frank van Drogen, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at &lt;http://www.pgdp.net/&gt;.
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">Principles Of Political Economy</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">William Roscher,</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Professor of Political Economy at the University of Leipzig,</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Corresponding Member of the Institute of France,</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Privy Counsellor To His Majesty,</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">The King Of Saxony.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">From the Thirteenth (1877) German Edition.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">With Additional Chapters Furnished By The Author,</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">For This First English And American Edition,</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">On Paper Money, International Trade,</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">And The Protective System;</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">And A Preliminary Essay</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">On The Historical Method In Political Economy</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">(From the French)</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">L. Wolowski</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">The Whole Translated By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">John J. Lalor, A. M.</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">Vol. I.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">New York:</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Henry Holt &amp; Co.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1878</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<pb n='iii'/><anchor id='Pgiii'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<head>Dedication.</head>

<p>
TO<lb/>
<lb/>
WILLIAM H. GAYLORD, <hi rend='smallcaps'>Esq</hi>.,<lb/>
<lb/>
<hi rend='italic'>COUNSELLOR AT LAW</hi>,<lb/>
<lb/>
OF CLEVELAND, OHIO,<lb/>
<lb/>
TO WHOSE BROTHERLY CARE IT IS LARGELY DUE THAT I LIVED TO<lb/>
TRANSLATE THEM,<lb/>
<lb/>
THESE VOLUMES<lb/>
<lb/>
ARE AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='v'/><anchor id='Pgv'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Translator's Preface.</head>

<p>
Our literature is rich enough in works on the principles of
Political Economy. So far as the translator is informed,
however, it possesses none in which the science is treated in
accordance with the historical method. We may therefore
venture to express the hope that this translation will fill a
place hitherto unoccupied in the literatures of England and
America, and fill it all the more efficiently and acceptably,
as Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Roscher</hi> is the founder and still the leader of
the historical school of Political Economy. Were this the
only recommendation of our undertaking, it would not be a
useless one. But a glance at Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Roscher's</hi> book will
convince even the most hasty reader that its pages fascinate
by their interest and are rich in treasures of erudition which
should not remain inaccessible to the English student from
being locked up in a foreign tongue.
</p>

<p>
The present translation has received, throughout, the revision
of the author, and should any imperfections remain in the
rendering of his thought into English, the blame is certainly
not his, for his revision has been most minute.
</p>

<p>
The three appendices have been supplied by Professor
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Roscher</hi> expressly for this edition. As they are intended to
form a part of the work on the Political Economy of Industry
and Commerce, on which he is now engaged, he authorizes
<pb n='vi'/><anchor id='Pgvi'/>
their publication in English, only by the publishers of this
edition of his principles; and only for the purpose of being
added to the present translation. He desires especially that
their appearance in their present shape should not in any way
interfere with any of his rights in his forthcoming volume,
and that they should not be translated into any language nor
translated back into German.
</p>

<p>
The essay of Mr. <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wolowski</hi>, on the historical method in
Political Economy constitutes no part of Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Roscher's</hi>
book, and neither he nor its author, but only the translator, is
responsible for its appearance here. In it the reader will find
a short sketch of the life of Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>Roscher</hi>, brought
down to the date at which the essay was written. The translator
has little to add to that sketch, all the information he
possesses in addition to what it contains being embraced in
the following lines from a letter received by him from the
author in answer to a request that he would supply the biographical
data not to be found in <hi rend='smallcaps'>Wolowski's</hi> essay: <q>You
might perhaps say ... that I have repeatedly declined calls
to the Universities of Munich, Vienna and Berlin, but that
I have never regretted remaining in Leipzig.</q>
</p>

<p>
The acknowledgments of the translator are due, in the
first place, to the eminent author himself, for the revision of
the plate-proof of the entire work, and then to Professor
<hi rend='smallcaps'>William F. Allen</hi>, of the University of Wisconsin, for his
interest in the progress of the enterprise, and for many valuable
suggestions; also to Professor <hi rend='smallcaps'>W. G. Sumner</hi>, of
Yale College, for some excellent hints as to the best translation
of certain words in the Appendix on Paper Money.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='vii'/><anchor id='Pgvii'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Author's Preface. (1st Edition.)</head>

<p>
My <foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>System der Volkswirthschaft</foreign>
shall, <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Deo volente</foreign>, be completed
in four parts. The second shall contain the national economy
of agriculture and the related branches of natural production;
the third, the national economy of industry and commerce;
the fourth, of the economy of the state and of the commune
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Gemeindehaushalt</foreign>).
While the entire work shall constitute
one systematic whole, each part shall have its own appropriate
title, constitute an independent treatise, and be sold separately.
</p>

<p>
Of the peculiar method which I have followed in this work,
and which will produce still better fruits in the succeeding
volumes, I have given a sufficient explanation in
§§ <ref target="Section_26">26</ref> ff., and
all I desire now is to say a few words on the relation the notes
bear to the text. The careful reader will soon be convinced
that of the many citations in this work, not one has been made
from a vain desire of the display of erudition. Part of them
serves as the necessary proof of surprising facts adduced, but
which are little known. Another part of them is intended to
incite the reader to the study of certain questions nearly related
to those treated in the text, but which are still different
from them. The object of the greater number is to supply
information concerning the history of economic principles. As
far as the sources at my command permitted, I have endeavored
to point out the first germs, the chief stages of development,
the contrasts, and, finally, what has been thus far attained
in economic science. This sometimes required some
little victory over self, inasmuch as I was conscious of having
<pb n='viii'/><anchor id='Pgviii'/>
independently discovered certain facts, when I afterwards
found that some old and long-forgotten writer had made similar
observations. Thus, this work may serve both as a handbook
and as a history of the literature of Political Economy.
Students of the science know how little has thus far been
done by writers in this direction. And hence I shall be very
grateful to those who labor in the same field, if they will, either
by writing to me personally, or through the medium of the
press, inform me when I have erred in ascribing a truth, or a
scientifically important error, to its earliest author.
</p>

<p>
I have already said in the title that this work is intended
not for the learned only, but for all educated men, for men of
a serious turn of mind, who desire truth and science for their
own sake. Like that ancient historian, whom I honor above
all others as my teacher, I desire that my work should be
useful to those, ὅσοι βουλήσοντοι τῶν τε γενομένων τὸ σαφὲς
σκοπεῖν καὶ τῶν μελλόντων ποτὲ αὖθις κατὰ τὸ ἀνθρώπειον τοιούτων
καὶ παραπλησίων ἔσεσθαι. (<hi rend='italic'>Thucydides</hi> I, 22.)
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>University of Leipzig</hi>,<lb/>
<lb/>
<hi rend='italic'>End of May, 1854.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='ix'/><anchor id='Pgix'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>From The Author's Prefaces. (2d to 11th Edition.)</head>

<p>
The preface to the second edition is dated October, 1856;
that to the third, April, 1858; that to the fourth, April, 1861;
that to the fifth, November, 1863; that to the sixth, November,
1865; that to the seventh, November, 1868; that to the
eighth, August, 1869; that to the ninth, March, 1871; that to
the tenth, May, 1873; that to the eleventh (unaltered), December,
1873. Each successive edition, nearly, has been announced
as an improved and enlarged one; and the tenth
edition contains one hundred and fifty-six pages more than
the first, although in places, a large number of abbreviations
had been made from previous editions. There are many
things in some of the previous editions which criticism induced
me, long since, to change. I have considered it my duty to
the public, who gave my work so warm and friendly a reception,
to take into consideration, in each successive edition, not
only my own new investigations, but those also of all others
with which I became acquainted, and, whenever possible, to
correct statistical illustrations from the latest sources. I have
especially, in each following edition, enriched a number of
paragraphs with here and there historical, ethnographic and
statistical features. Plutarch is certainly right, spite of the
fact that pedants may abuse him for it, when he says, that
trifling acts, a word and even a jest, are often more important,
as characterizing the life of a people or an age, than great
battles which cost the lives of tens of thousands of men.
</p>

<p>
I have changed the titles <q>Ricardo's Law of Rent,</q> and
<q>The Malthusian Law of the Increase of Population,</q> which
<pb n='x'/><anchor id='Pgx'/>
I formerly used, for others. But I would not be misunderstood
here. I hold it to be a duty of reverence in the
learned&mdash;as it has long been practiced in the case of the natural
sciences&mdash;in the sciences of the human mind to call the
natural laws, methods etc., in acquainting us with which, some
one particular investigator has won very distinguished merit,
by the name of that investigator. In the case of the law of
rent, the application of this rule would as unquestionably entitle
Ricardo to this honor as it would Malthus in that of
the increase of population, spite of the fact that Ricardo may
not have succeeded in finding the best possible form of the
abstraction, and although Malthus even, in a one-sided reaction
against a former still greater one-sidedness, was not
always able to steer clear of positive and negative errors.
Recent science has endeavored, and successfully, to examine
the facts which contradict the Ricardoan and Malthusian formulations
of the laws in question, and to extend the formulas
accordingly. I have myself contributed hereto to the extent
of my ability. But, in the interval, it is not hard to comprehend
that, while this process of elucidation is going on,
most scholars, those especially possessed more of a dogmatic
than of a historical turn of mind, should estimate these two
leaders more in accordance with their few defects than with
the great merits of their discoveries. If, therefore, I now
drop the title <q>Malthusian law,</q> it is to guard hasty readers
from the illusion that §§ 242 seq.
teach what the great crowd understand by Malthusianism; when they might, perhaps,
omit that portion entirely. For my own part, I have no doubt
that, when the process of elucidation above referred to shall
have been thoroughly finished, the future will accord both to
Ricardo and Malthus their full meed of honor as political
economists and discoverers of the first rank.<note place='foot'>The
author's preface to the twelfth edition is confined to pointing out the
improvements etc., made in the eleventh. There is no new preface to the
thirteenth edition of the original, which appeared in
1877.&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Translator</hi>.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='001'/><anchor id='Pg001'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Preliminary Essay.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>Preliminary Essay On The Application Of The Historical
Method To The Study Of Political Economy,<lb/>
<lb/>
By M. Wolowski,<lb/>
<lb/>
Member Of The Institute Of France.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<q><foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Nunquam bene percipiemus usu
necessarium nisi et noverimus jus illud usu
non necessarium. Nexum est et colligatum alterum alteri. Nulli sunt servi
nobis, cur quæstiones de servis vexamus? Digna imperito
vox.</foreign></q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Cuj.</hi>, vii, in
titul. Dig. De Justitia et Jure.<note place='foot'><q>We shall never
thoroughly understand the reason of customary law unless
we also have a knowledge of that which is not customary. The one is
connected and bound to the other. We have no slaves; why vex ourselves
with questions about slaves?&mdash;Words worthy of a novice.</q></note>
</quote>

<quote rend='display'>
<q><foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Homo sum, humani nihil
a me alienum
puto.</foreign></q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Terence.</hi><note place='foot'><q>I
am a man; I think nothing foreign to me that pertains to man.</q></note>
</quote>

<quote rend='display'>
<q><foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Ista præpotens, ac gloriosa
philosophia.</foreign></q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, De Or., I,
43.<note place='foot'><q>That excellent and glorious philosophy.</q></note>
</quote>

<div>
<head>I.</head>

<p>
It is no foolish desire to make a vain display of citations, that
induces us, at the beginning of this essay, intended to point out
the results of the application of a new method to the study of
Political Economy, to invoke the authority of a poet and moralist,
of a jurisconsult and of a philosopher. The writer finds in
the words just quoted the loftiest expression of the thought
<pb n='002'/><anchor id='Pg002'/>
which dictates these lines, viz.: that the impartial researches
of history, a profound feeling of man's moral and material wants,
and the light of philosophy, should govern in the teaching of
a science, the object of which is to show us how those things
which are intended to satisfy our wants are produced and distributed
among the several classes or individuals of a nation;
how they are exchanged one against another, and how they
are consumed.
</p>

<p>
The nineteenth century affords us something more than the
admirable spectacle of the rapid and fertile development of
mechanical power and natural forces. This is but one of the
aspects, we might even say but one of the results, of the general
progress of the human mind. The renovation of moral
and intellectual studies has served as a starting point for the
application to facts of the conquests of thought. Science has
preceded art.
</p>

<p>
In the foremost rank of the studies just referred to is
<hi rend='italic'>philosophy</hi>, which initiates us into the knowledge of human nature,
the basis of right, and which translates its legitimate aspirations
into a language which we can understand; <hi rend='italic'>history</hi>, that
<hi rend='italic'>prophetess</hi> of the truth, as one of the ancients called it, which
places before us the faithful picture of times past, not by
simply putting together a skeleton of facts, but by following
the living progress of events and the organic development of
institutions. Such, at least, has been the work of those noble
minds who have consecrated their energies to the resuscitation
of ages past, in their true shape, and such is the service for
which we are indebted to them for the successful accomplishment
of the reformation of historical studies, which they
attempted with such rare devotion and such marvelous sagacity.
</p>

<p>
This renovation of history has exerted the most fertile influence
in the region of philosophy, in that of law, and we
believe that it will prove no less useful in that of Political Economy.
It has served to put us on our guard against being
easily misled by <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>a priori</foreign> notions.
</p>

<pb n='003'/><anchor id='Pg003'/>

<p>
By exhibiting to us the results of the life and of the experience
of centuries, by teaching us by what steps the human
mind has risen to its present eminence, and what the education
given it in the past has been, it has enabled us to ascend from
phenomena to the principles which preside over them; from
facts to the law; and it has substituted for arbitrary assumptions
and purely ideal systems, the slow but progressive work
of the genius of nations. Not that it turns a deaf ear to the
exalted lessons of philosophy, nor that it denies the <emph>eternal relations
resulting from the nature of things</emph>. Far from it. On
the contrary, it supplies a solid basis to intellectual investigations,
and, so to speak, an answer for all the moral sciences, to
this saying of Rœderer: <q>Politics is a field which has been
traversed thus far only in a balloon; it is time to put foot on
solid ground.</q>
</p>

<p>
Neither does history, as thus understood, confine itself to
mere description; it also assumes the office of judge. While
it pulls down much that passion and inaccuracy have reared, and
thus restores respect for the past, it does not turn that past into
a fetish. It looks it boldly in the face and questions it, instead
of prostrating itself before it and worshipping it with downcast
eyes. Thus, by plainly showing us the many bonds which tie
us to it, it escapes at once both the rashness of impatience and
the wearisomeness of routine.
</p>

<p>
The impartiality it inculcates is not indifference; and there
is no danger that the justice it metes out to past ages shall degenerate
into a vain scepticism or a convenient optimism.
</p>

<p>
The study of history, thus understood, has another advantage;
it accustoms us to those patient and disinterested investigations,
to those lengthy labors, the positive result of which at first
escapes us for a time, only to burst on our eyes, with so much
more brilliancy, when rigorous research has succeeded in discovering
it. It frees us from the deadly constraint of immediate
utility.
</p>

<p>
There is nothing more fatal to science than the feverish impatience
for results which obtains only too much in our own
<pb n='004'/><anchor id='Pg004'/>
days, and which induces people to run after him who is in the
greatest hurry, and which leads to hasty conclusions.
</p>

<p>
<q>Research undertaken from a disinterested love of science,</q>
says the learned Hugo, one of the masters of the historical school
of law in Germany,<note place='foot'>Introduction to
the Civilistisches Magazin.</note> <q>that research which at first promises no
other advantage but truth and the culture of the mind, is precisely
that which brings us the richest rewards. Would we
not be behind, in all the sciences, if we had clung only to those
principles, the utility of which in practice was already known?
Do we not, to-day, from many a discovery, reap advantages of
which its author never dreamed?</q>
</p>

<p>
Doubtless this tendency, unless restrained by other demands,
is not exempt from danger. We may be carried away by the
attraction peculiar to these noble studies, withdraw into antiquity
and fall into a species of historical mysticism which ends
in the affirmation, that whatever has been is true, absolutely,
and which, instead of confining itself to the explanation of
transitory phenomena, invests them with all the dignity of principles.
We shall endeavor to avoid the peril pointed out by
Mallebranche. <q>Learned men study rather to acquire a
chimerical greatness in the imagination of other men, than to
acquire greater breadth and strength of mind themselves.
They make their heads a kind of store-room, into which they
gather, without order or discrimination, everything which has
a look of erudition,&mdash;I mean to say everything which may
seem rare or extraordinary and excite the wonder of other
people. They glory in getting together, in this archæological
museum, antiques with nothing that is rich or solid about them,
and the price of which depends on nothing but fancy, chance
or passion.</q>
</p>

<p>
A display of erudition may obscure the truth, and bury it under
its weight, instead of bringing it out into relief. By concentrating
the mind on the material vestiges of the past, it
may withdraw it from the intellectual movement of the present,
and give us a race of scholars, of great merit, doubtless,
<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>
but who move about like strangers among their contemporaries.
</p>

<p>
Without a sense for the practical, and without ideas of an
elevated nature, a person may, indeed, be a man of erudition&mdash;he
cannot be a historian. As the proverb says, the forest cannot
be seen, for the trees. That this noble study may bear its
best and most useful fruit; that is, that it should preserve us
against ambitious <hi rend='italic'>formulas</hi> and destructive chimeras, we
must pursue another way.
</p>

<p>
<q>The world,</q> says Montaigne, <q>is incapable of curing itself.
It is so impatient of what burthens it, that it thinks only
of how it shall rid itself of it, without inquiring at what price.
A thousand examples show us that it cures itself ordinarily at
its own cost. The getting rid of the present evil is not cure,
unless there be a general amendment of condition. Good does
not immediately succeed evil. One evil, and a worse, may
follow another, like Cæsar's assassins, who brought the
republic to such a pass, that they had reason to repent the
meddling with it.</q> Such, too frequently, is the lot of those
who, abandoning themselves to their imagination, and without
consulting the past, mix together promises of liberty and
the despotism of Utopias which they would impose on nations
under pretext of enfranchising them. Despising the work of
the ages, they think they can build upon a soil shaken by destruction
and crumbled, until it may be likened to moving sand.
</p>

<p>
Contempt for the past is associated with a passion for
reform. Men think of destroying that which should only
be transformed. They condemn everything that has been,
unconditionally, and launch out towards a new future. The
suffering which has been gone through irritates and troubles
the mind. The work of pulling down is so easy, it is supposed
that the work of building up is equally so. Hence systems
rise, as if the world were to begin anew. The pride of
liberty and of human action becomes the principle of science;
and, like all new principles, it pretends to exclusive and absolute
dominion. Rationalism governs; abstract philosophy
<pb n='006'/><anchor id='Pg006'/>
ignores the traditions and the requirements of the life of nations;
and finds now in it, as in geometry, nothing but principles and
deductions. The memory of recent oppression causes us
to act as Tarquin did, and to level down the higher classes instead
of elevating the inferior. Liberty and equality then govern
by their negative side, instead of exercising the positive and
beneficent influence they should have, to develop all forces to
their utmost, to ennoble the mind, to give more elasticity to
the soul and greater vigor to thought, to give birth to those
varied forms and to that moral energy, which should bring us
nearer to final equality in the bosom of
God.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>, De la Liberté du Travail.</note>
</p>

<p>
We forget that no one is born <emph>free</emph>, and that every one
ought to endeavor to become so,
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l>Feindlich ist des Mannes Streben</l>
<l>Mit zermalmender Gewalt</l>
<l>Geht der Wilde durch des Leben</l>
<l>Ohne Rast und Aufenthalt,</l>
</lg>
<lg>
<l>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Schiller</hi>.</l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
and make himself worthy of liberty, by the exercise of manly
virtue! Because the form has been changed, we believe that
we have changed human nature.
</p>

<p>
It is easy to understand, why, where these ideas prevail, the
study of the past should be neglected and despised. Efforts
are made to avoid it. Why, it is asked, revive memories of
oppression and misery? The old world is wrecked. It is
annihilated. Peace to its ashes! Or else, after it has been
destroyed, it is sought for again; and, under pretext of eradicating
the evils existing in it, an attack is made on the eternal
basis on which human society rests, on the laws not made by
man, and which it is not given to man to change. The world
becomes one vast laboratory, in which the rashest experiments
are multiplied in number, in which mankind is but clay in the
hands of the potter which every pretended <q>thinker</q> may
mould at will, by giving him the false appearances of independence
and of an emancipated being.
</p>

<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>

<p>
And, indeed, if the will of man be all-powerful, if states are
to be distinguished from one another only by their boundaries,
if everything may be changed like the scenery in a play by a
flourish of the magic wand of a system, if man may arbitrarily
make the right, if nations can be put through evolutions like a
regiment of troops; what a field would the world present for
attempts at the realization of the wildest dreams, and what a
temptation would be offered to take possession, by main force,
of the government of human affairs, to destroy the rights of
property and the rights of capital, to gratify ardent longings
without trouble, and provide the much coveted means of enjoyment.
The Titans have tried to scale the heavens, and
have fallen into the most degrading materialism. Purely
speculative dogmatism sinks into materialism.
</p>

<p>
All is changed, both men and things. Yet we hear the
same old style of declamation. There are those who wish to
plough up the soil which the harrow of the revolution went
over yesterday; and they believe they are marching in the
way of progress. They do not see that they have mistaken
their age, and that the bold attempts of the past have now
come to possess a directly opposite meaning. Without stopping
to inquire to what side the new world inclines, they repeat
the same words, and swear <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>in
verba magistri</foreign>, and go the
road of destruction, believing themselves to be creating the
world anew!
</p>

<p>
Nothing is more natural than that these excesses should
produce other excesses, in a contrary direction. Moved by
hatred or fear of revolutionary absolutism, nations seek an
asylum in governmental absolutism, or they retrograde towards
the middle ages, and consider the mutual bond of protection
and dependence of that period as the ideal and the
realization of true liberty. History is no longer the organic
development of social life, and man, like a soldier that
thoughtlessly and capriciously has gone beyond his place of
supplies, is obliged to retrace his steps. The reaction is
clearly defined. The past is opposed to the present, not as a
<pb n='008'/><anchor id='Pg008'/>
lesson to be turned to advantage, but as a model which must
be hastily accepted; and men become revolutionary in a backward
direction.
</p>

<p>
However, history, rigorously studied, knows neither these
complaisances nor these weaknesses. It does not descend to
the apotheosis of a past which cannot return again. The real
historical spirit consists in rightly discerning what belongs to
each epoch. Its object is, by no means, to call back the dead
to life, but to explain why and how they lived. In harmony
with a healthy philosophy, it assigns a limit to the vagaries of
arbitrary will, beyond which the latter cannot go. It unceasingly
calls us back, from the heights of abstraction, to positive
facts and things.
</p>

<p>
In the creation of systems, only one thing was wont to be
forgotten, men, who were treated, in them, like so many
ciphers; for intellectual despotism has this in common with all
despotic authority. History teaches us that we can reach
nothing great or lasting, but by addressing ourselves to the
soul. If the soul decays, there can be no longer great thoughts
or great actions. Society lives by the spirit which inhabits it.
It may, for an instant, submit to the empire of force, but, in the
long run, it hearkens only to the voice of justice. It was thus
that the greatest revolution which history records, that of
Christianity, was accomplished. It addressed itself only to
the soul; but by changing the hearts of men, it transformed
society entirely.
</p>

<p>
The violent struggle between an imperious dogmatism and
an unintelligent and mistaken attempt at a retrogressive movement
is resolved into a higher view, which permits the union
of conservatism and progress. Violent attempts and rash endeavors
made, threatened to bring contempt on the noblest
teachings of philosophy, and to make them repulsive to man;
and, on the other hand, a blind respect for the institutions consecrated
by history threatened to stifle all examination and all
freedom of judgment.
</p>

<p>
But a healthier doctrine has permitted us to understand, that
<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>
we are continuing the work of preceding generations; that we
are developing the germs which they successively sowed;
that we are perfecting that which they had only sketched, and
that we are letting drop that which has no support in the
social condition of man. Every thing is connected; each
thing is linked to every other; nothing is repeated. The
hopes of sudden and total renovation, based on absolute formulas,
vanish before the touch of this solid study. This shows
us how firm and unshaken are those reforms which have begun
by taking hold of the minds of men, the precise spirit of
which had penetrated into the souls of whole nations before
they had manifested themselves in facts.
</p>

<p>
Law and Economy constitute a part of the life of nations in
the same way that language and customs do. The power of
history in no way contradicts the supremacy of reason.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>II.</head>

<p>
These two tendencies, the rationalistic and the historical, are
everywhere found face to face. They carry on an eternal
warfare, which is renewed in every age, under new names
and new forms. Accomplished facts and renovating thought
divide the world between them. They at one time moderate
its speed, and at others, spur it on its way. But these two
forces, instead of compromising the destinies of humanity by
their opposing action, maintain and balance them, as the contrary
impulses given by the hand of the Great Architect has
peopled the universe with worlds which gravitate in space.
</p>

<p>
Victor Cousin, a very competent authority on the subject,
has said that the history of philosophy is the torch of philosophy
itself. The remarkable works which have enriched it in
this direction are well known. History, on its side, is enlightened
by philosophy. Thus, it teaches us not to despise
facts, but at the same time not to be slaves to precedent. It
does equal justice to the incredulous and to the fanatic, to too
supple practitioners and to intractable theorizers.
</p>

<pb n='010'/><anchor id='Pg010'/>

<p>
We may doubtless say with Henri Klimrath, who, in connection
with a few others, had undertaken the work of the
restoration of historical study in its application to French law,
that there is an absolute, true, beautiful, good and just, the
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>ratio recta summi
Jovis</foreign>,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, De
Leg., I.</note> the supreme reason founded in the
nature of things.<note place='foot'>Discours Préliminaire du
Code Civil.</note> The eternal truths taught by philosophy
constitute the higher law, a law which dates not from the day
on which it was reduced to writing, but from the day of its
birth; and it was born with the divine intelligence itself. <q><foreign
lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Qui non tum denique incipit
lex esse, cum scripta est, sed tum cum orta est. Orta autem simul est
cum mente divina.</foreign></q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>,
De Leg., II, 4. <q>Legem neque hominum ingeniis excogitatam,
nec scitum aliquod esse populorum, sed æternum quiddam quod universum mundum regeret,
imperandi, prohibendique sapientia.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Ibid.</hi></note> And
Troplong rightly adds: <q>There are rules anterior to all positive
laws. I cannot grant that the action of conscience and
the idea of right are the work of the legislator. It is not law
that made the family, property, liberty, equality, the idea of
good and evil. It may, indeed, give organization to all these
things, but in doing so, it is only working on the foundation
which nature has laid, and it is perfect in proportion as it
comes nearer to the eternal, immutable laws which the Creator
has engraved on our hearts. What changes is not the eternal
law, the revelation of which comes to man incessantly and by
a necessary action, but the form in which humanity clothes it,
the institutions which man builds on its immutable
foundation.</q><note place='foot'>Revue de Législ. et de Jurispr. (1841,
XIII, p. 39.) <hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi> says:
<q>The relations of justice and equity are anterior to all positive laws.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
We therefore believe in the law of nature, and regret that our
opinion is not shared by Mr. Roscher, at least that he does
not explicitly enough express his faith in it, nor apply it broadly
enough in the beautiful work which we are happy to render
accessible to the French public.<note place='foot'>Mr. Wolowski
translated the second edition of Roscher's Principles into
French, and prefixed the present essay thereto as a preface. Since Wolowski's
translation appeared, the original work has gone through eleven editions,
been largely increased in size, and enriched with new notes, the result
of nearly twenty additional years of research and thought. The thirteenth
German edition, from which the present translation is made, is larger
than the first by one hundred and seventy pages.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Translator's
note.</hi></note> We believe in it in its
<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>
philosophical sense, and not simply in the juridical sense attached
to it by Ulpian. <q>Let us not,</q> observes Portalis,
<q>confound the physical order of nature, common to all animated
beings, with the natural law which is peculiar to man.
We call <hi rend='italic'>natural law</hi>, the principles which govern man considered
as a moral being, that is, as an intelligent and free being,
intended to live in the society of other beings, intelligent and
free like himself.</q><note place='foot'><p>And he adds: <q>Animals
which yield only to an impulse or blind instinct,
come together only fortuitously or periodically and in a manner destitute
of all morality. But in the case of men, reason is mixed up more or less
with every act of their lives. Sentiment is found side by side with desire,
and right succeeds instinct. I discover a real contract in the union of the
two sexes.</q>
</p>
<p>
It would be impossible to present a more complete or eloquent refutation
of the definition of the Roman jurisconsults which debases marriage to the
level of the promiscuous coming together of animals, and which limits the
natural law to the law common to man and beast. <q>Jus naturale est quod
natura omnia animalia docuit; nam jus istud non humani generis proprium,
sed omnium animalium quæ in terra, quæ in mare nascuntur, avium quoque
commune est. Hinc descendit maris atque feminæ conjunctio, quam nos
matrimonium appellamus, hinc liberorum procreatio, hinc educatio; videmus
etenim cætera quoque animalia, feras etiam, istius juris peritia censeri.</q> D. L.
I. De Just. et Jure.</p></note> Ulpian's famous tripartite division, of natural
law, the law of nations, and the civil law, is proof, from
the meaning he attaches to them, either of a misunderstanding
or of the imperfect idea which the Stoics had conceived
of the essence of natural law. In vain Cujas exhausted all
the resources of his noble intellect to explain it.<note place='foot'>Comment.
in tit. Dig., De Just. et Jure, VII, 11th Naples edition. The ingenious
argument of the great jurisconsult falls to the ground under the beautiful
words of Cicero: <q>Ut justitia, ita jus sine ratione non consistit; soli ratione
utentes jure ac lege vivunt.</q> De Natura Deorum, II, 62. <q>Virtus ratione
constat, brutæ ratione non utuntur, cujus sunt expertia, ergo jure non vivunt,
et ut rationis, sic jures sunt expertia.</q> Besides, Cujas himself recognizes
how faulty and incomplete was the definition he was defending: <q>At ne jus
quidem naturale, de quo agimus, est commune omnium animalium quatenus
rationale, est, sed quatenus sensible est, sensui congruit. Tullius participare
hominem cum brutis eo quod sentit, sed ratione ab eo differre. Et alio loco:
jus naturale esse commune omnium Quiritium, veluti ut se velint tueri: sed
hoc distare hominem a bellua, quod bellua sensu moveatur, homo etiam ratione.</q></note>
</p>

<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>

<p>
It is necessary to draw a distinction between physical law
and the law (<hi rend='italic'>droit</hi>) of intelligent beings. Doubtless the existence
of men as well as that of animals is limited by time.
They both live and die; but the soul escapes the necessities
of material nature.
</p>

<p>
The moment there is question of <hi rend='italic'>right</hi>, intelligence governs,
reason comes into play, and the science of right and wrong is
appealed to as a guide. Hence the <hi rend='italic'>natural</hi> law of the human
species is not the physical law which all creatures obey.
</p>

<p>
It was necessary for us to insist upon these principles. It
was necessary for us to show that there is a law independent
of positive and local law, a law which is not the expression of
an arbitrary will, but an emanation from the nature of
things.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Rossi.</hi></note>
</p>

<p>
Hence come the features in common which we meet with
everywhere, and the variable forms which develop law in harmony
with the special conditions of each civil society.
</p>

<p>
We must descend into the very depths of human nature to
discover these eternal and permanent laws; and if the mere
effort of the mind should not reach them directly, they might
be discovered in the phenomena of the life of nations. History
affords us the counter-proof and confirmation of the philosophical
doctrine.
</p>

<p>
The development of society does not afford a mathematical
expression of these higher truths. It gives them a form
which is unceasingly modified in the written law. The person
who discovers in them nothing but an absolute rule, looks
upon the changes as evidences of caprice and error. He alone
understands the revolutions of things who knows their cause
and the necessity which produces them.
</p>

<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>

<p>
Solon was right when he gave the Athenians not the most
perfect laws, but the best which they could bear.
</p>

<p>
It is not in the attempts contemporary with the infancy of
society, or nearly so, that we are to look for the complete realization
of the precepts of the natural law; for principles obey
the rule laid down by Aristotle. <q>The nature of each thing
is precisely that which constitutes its end; and when each being
has attained its entire development, we say that that is its
own proper nature.</q><note place='foot'>Politics, I, ch. I, II.</note>
</p>

<p>
The ideas of natural law are purified in proportion as society
grows enlightened and free; but the truth appears only
successively in the phases it passes through. It allows us to
grasp one aspect of itself after another, but does not surrender
itself entirely, at any one moment, to the investigations of the
historian or the jurisconsult.
</p>

<p>
History and philosophy interpenetrate and complement one
another.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>III.</head>

<p>
The two schools, that of philosophy and that of history
have met in our day, in the field of law. Who is there that
does not remember the great and noble contest carried on,
about the beginning of this century, between two descendants
of Frenchmen who had sought a refuge in Germany,
and who united in their own persons, and in so marvelous a
manner, the different aptitudes of the country they owed their
origin to, and of the land that gave them birth,&mdash;between Thibaut
and Savigny?
</p>

<p>
It would be difficult to find a scientific question of a higher
character, debated by champions more worthy to throw light
upon it.
</p>

<p>
The <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Code Napoléon</foreign>
had appeared. It had, to use Rossi's
happy expression, transferred into law the social revolution
<pb n='014'/><anchor id='Pg014'/>
produced by the destruction of privilege. It was the practical
formula expressive of the conquests which had been made.
</p>

<p>
The philosophy of the eighteenth century had previously
inspired the Prussian Code. And yet, it was on the question of
codification that this memorable controversy was carried on.
The two principal combatants, while manfully battling, the one
against the other, continued to hold each other in high esteem,
and the profound study of law was developed in the midst of
the <hi rend='italic'>melée</hi>.
</p>

<p>
We cannot delay long on this subject, nor analyze the arguments
advanced by Thibaut<note place='foot'>Ueber die Nothwendigkeit
eines Allgemeinen burgerlichen Rechts fur Deutschland.</note>
and Savigny.<note place='foot'>Vom Beruf unserer Zeit
für Gesetzgebung etc.</note> What interests
us at present is not so much the question debated, as the
intellectual movement to which it gave birth. Savigny sustained
the ancient law, Thibaut attacked it. Numerous and
distinguished jurisconsults ranged themselves on the one side
and the other. A new school grew up which, with the most
brilliant success, made law throw light on history and history
on law.
</p>

<p>
The application of the historical method to the study of law
was productive of the most happy results.
</p>

<p>
Without acknowledging it to themselves, the chiefs of the
contending parties were each obeying a political impulse.
Savigny was by his birth and his tastes carried into the camp
of conservatism; Thibaut, led by his convictions, into the liberal
ranks. Nevertheless, the natural elevation of their genius
preserved them from all exaggeration. The glorious defender
of tradition preserved a liberal spirit, and the ardent advocate
of reform desired no upheaval.
</p>

<p>
In what more nearly concerns the question with which we
are now occupied, Savigny&mdash;while he maintained that law was
something contingent, human, national; and while he brought
out into relief the practical and exalted character of its successive
developments which introduced reform and guarded
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
against revolution&mdash;developments which, not confiding in the
letter of the written law, unceasingly feed the living and
created law, that law called in the energetic language of a
great jurisconsult, a law <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>écrit
es coeurs des citoyens</foreign>&mdash;is
far from denying the importance of a high and healthy philosophy
which directs man in the uninterrupted labor to which he is
called, in the sphere of jurisprudence.
</p>

<p>
Men can no more renounce law than language, the forms of
which last they have gradually modified in order to better
translate their thoughts into words. The legislator's task is
the successive elaboration of obligatory provisions. He will
sometimes oppose and sometimes second the natural progress
of law; but, in doing so, it will ever be necessary for him to
ascend to the nature of things, and grasp their relations, if he
would not go astray in practice, or lose himself among the
successive and partial changes to which the illustrious Berlin
professor would confine the legitimate ambition of legislative
power. To go beyond this, in an age like ours, seemed to
him to be a work of destruction. However, far from denying
the influence of thought, and therefore of philosophy, acting
within its sphere, Savigny invokes its fertile aid.
</p>

<p>
Thibaut, on the other hand, with more confidence in the
powers of the spirit of modern times, did not believe a good
codification to be impossible. His starting point had been a
cry for national independence. He well knew how much veneration
was due those institutions which were the slow and progressive
work of national genius, and what was the power they
possessed. He wished, therefore, to reform, not to abolish
them. He well understood that the greatness of the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Code Napoléon</foreign>
itself, and the respect which it inspired were due to the
fact that its roots ran deep into the soil of the past, even while
the modern idea it contained shone like a bright light in the
world of things. Hence, without contesting the value of history,
he refused to acknowledge its right to exclusive reign.<note place='foot'><p>In
one of his latest productions (Ueber die sogennante historische und
nicht historische Rechtsschule, Archives du Droit Civil, Heidelberg, XXI
1838) the veteran of the philosophical school, resuming a debate begun a quarter
of a century before, energetically defends himself against the erroneous interpretations
which it was sought to give to his thoughts. <q>Does it follow,</q>
he inquires, <q rend='pre'>that because a man is desirous of reform, he must surrender
the study of the past? And if there be new laws to construe, how could his
evil genius deter him from the necessary knowledge of ancient laws? Is
there a single jurisconsult, who, in the hope of a better future, despises the
meaning and spirit of that which still exists? I do not know even one....
And when I am accused of passing by the institutions of the past with coldness
and hatred in my heart, because I was one of the first to express the
hope of a better future, a charge is laid at my door which is perfectly
incomprehensible ... I am reproached with despising the history of law. It
is a slander on me. Although I have only laughed at these reports, one
man's mistake grieved me; for that man's name was Niebuhr.... When
he [Niebuhr] returned from Italy to devote himself entirely to science, in
his retreat at Bonn, he passed through Heidelberg, where he remained five
or six days. During a great part of that time we came frequently together.
He was at first a little cold; but Cicero made us friends. After a happy
word let drop concerning that writer, he asked me what I thought of him.
I answered laconically: <q>If they were burning all the Latin authors, and
I were permitted to grant a pardon to one of them, I should say, without
hesitation: Spare the works of Cicero.</q> He joyfully exclaimed: <q>I have
at last found a man who judges rightly of Cicero. I share your admiration
for him, and that is the reason I have given my boy the name of Marcus.</q>
The ice was now broken, and he frankly told me that he could not understand
how I could be an inveterate enemy of Roman law and of the history
of law. I gave him to understand that I had simply been slandered, and I
added, that, in order to live entirely with the classics, I had always refused
to give legal advice, or act as a counsellor, although I might have made a
fortune in that way. I told him that I owed my gayety and vigor, in great
part, to my love for the classics of all ages, even those outside the domain
of jurisprudence; but that I held, above all things, to the good qualities of
the German nation, and that I did not hesitate to say with Facciolatus:
<q>Expedit omnes gentes Romanis legibus operam dare, suis vivere.</q></q>
</p>
<p>
<q rend='pre'>When he heard those words of mine, he exclaimed with his usual energy
and vivacity: <q>Habes me consentientem, labes me consentientem.</q> From
that moment all coldness between us was at an end, and we approached,
without any embarrassment, a host of questions in one conversation in
which I endeavored, as I had before, to learn from him.</q>
</p>
<p>
<q>Thus I receive with sincere gratitude, all the works, both useful and profound,
which have appeared in our day on the history of law. It would be
folly in me to deny the impetus which the study of positive law has received.
New sources have been discovered. Their newness and importance
have excited the zeal of many scholars who have studied them profoundly;
a fact which made a review of the older sources, still by far the
most important, necessary. These two circumstances soon rendered it imperative
to proceed to the making of scrupulous dogmatic researches. Thus
there now is a new life among jurisconsults, and a great activity, which, it
is my hope, may continue long.</q></p></note>
</p>

<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>

<p>
The life and activity prevailing in the study of law, and the
brilliant successes that study has recently achieved, are due, in
great part, to the illustrious representatives of the historical
school. We may add, here, that the French historical school,
which has so worthily inherited the spirit of Montesquieu, has
not achieved less in this direction than the older German
school. It has reconciled the opposing but not mutually hostile,
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
tendencies of Savigny and Thibaut. It has conscientiously
scrutinized facts to show their concatenation, and to
allow their meaning and bearing to be clearly grasped. A
French jurisconsult, who is at the same time our highest authority
in the natural law, opened the way by his excellent essays
on the necessity of reforming the historical studies applicable
to law; on the influence of the legists on French civilization<note place='foot'>Revue
de Législ. et de Jurisprudence, 1834-35.</note>
etc.; and by his prefaces, equal in value to whole works,
on hypothecation, sales, loans, partnership, charter-parties etc.
He may truly be said to have renewed the ancient and prolific
alliance of history and law.
</p>

<p>
Instead of pursuing a pure abstraction, this historical school
has confined itself to the knowledge of the life of man and the
evolution of society. It has applied to law, with what success
is well known, the principle which has regenerated the social
sciences, philosophy, letters, history, Political Economy,&mdash;sciences
which are, so to speak, different provinces of one intellectual
empire, which interpenetrate one another without being
confounded one with another, between which no jealous barrier
should be raised, and between which reciprocity of exchange
should be encouraged by the suppression of factitious
duties, which have existed only too long.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>

<div>
<head>IV.</head>

<p>
We need not dwell any longer on the character of the historical
method as applied to law, nor on the services it has
already rendered. On this point, there can be no two opinions.
And, if any one wonders that we should speak of it at all, in a
work on Political Economy, we can only say to him, that we
have done so to call his attention to an instructive precedent,
and for the further reason that the same method is peculiarly
well adapted to the study of Political Economy. Its advantages
are the same here, its tendencies the same, and the same motives
exist to induce us to use it here. In describing the successive
phases of the question in the case of law, we have
performed an important part of the task we had imposed upon
ourselves, of vindicating the employment of the historical
method, in the sphere of Political Economy.
</p>

<p>
The study of history is the best and most powerful antidote
against social romances and ideal fancies. François Beaudouin
was right when he said: <q><foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Cæca
sine historia jurisprudentia</foreign>;</q>
and we are very sure that, without history as an
element in it, Political Economy runs a great risk of walking
blindfold.
</p>

<p>
The human mind has need of being able to know where it
is at any moment, surrounded, as it is, by so many roads, running
in so many different directions. It ought to account to
itself for its progress, its deviations from the right path, and
for its mistakes.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Rossi.</hi></note>
History alone can throw any light on questions
which are not simply intellectual curiosities, but which,
rather, are most deeply concerned with the vital interests of
society. It confirms the noble teachings of philosophy, by
showing how our life is made up of one unchanging tissue of
relations, and how man, even if he may vary their colors, and
change their design, cannot renew their texture.
</p>

<p>
It teaches us to admire nothing, and to despise nothing, beyond
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
measure. It enlightens us concerning questions of a
very complicated nature. Witnessing the evolutions of humanity,
following the development of social facts and theories,
we better discern principles, and grow wary in relation to the
alchemists of thought, who imagine that society may be made
to undergo a transformation between the rising and the setting
of the sun.
</p>

<p>
As there is a natural law, so, too, there are certain principles
of Political Economy which emanate from philosophy, and
may be reduced to one supreme principle; that of liberty and
responsibility. The domain of Political Economy is the <emph>labor</emph>
of generations. But we reject with all our strength, the materialistic
doctrine which, inexplicably confusing matters, endeavors
to assimilate ideas so distinct as intelligence and
things; and which would descend so low as to employ the
dynamometer to measure the creative force of man and its results,
and which sees only figures where there is a living soul.
</p>

<p>
Man is an intelligent being, served by organs,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>M.
de Bonald.</hi></note> by <emph>personal</emph>
organs, with which the Creator has endowed him, by giving
him a body provided with marvellous aptitudes, by <emph>external</emph>
organs which he finds in nature subjected to his power. Man
was created in the image of God, say the Scriptures, and
these words contain a deep meaning. He alone, of all terrestrial
beings, possesses a spark of divine intelligence. He alone
has been called to pursue the magnificent work of creation, by
giving a new face to a world to which he cannot add so much
as an atom.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Labor</hi> is nothing but the action of spirit on itself and on
matter.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>M. Cousin</hi> has brought this
out in an admirable manner in his lectures
on Adam Smith. Cours de Philosophie Moderne.</note>
Hence its dignity and grandeur. Hence, also, the
difficulties in the way of economic studies; since, to consider
them only as concerned with questions of material production,
is to forget that the products of industry are made for man,
not man for industrial products; to ignore the close relationship
<pb n='020'/><anchor id='Pg020'/>
between their fruitful investigations and the whole circle
of the moral sciences; to debase them and to mutilate them.
</p>

<p>
From the moment that science concerns itself with man
only, and the action of the mind; from the moment that its end
becomes not simply material enjoyment, but moral elevation,
the questions it discusses become indeed more complex, but
the answer, when found, is more prolific in results. Wealth,
then, is treated only as one of the forces of civilization. Other
interests than purely material ones occupy the first place.
This matter-of-fact philosophy which, according to Bacon's
precept, seeks to improve the conditions of life, bears in mind,
that the most fruitful source of material development lies in
intellectual development. It humbly recognizes that it is not
the first-born of the family, and draws new strength from this
avowal. From the moment that it is the mind which <emph>produces</emph>
and which governs the world, intellectual and moral perfection
become the cause and effect of material progress. <q>But seek
ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all
these things shall be added unto you.</q>
</p>

<p>
The increase of production, then, appears an instrument of
elevation in the moral order.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Channing.</hi></note>
It is energy of soul, intelligence
and manly virtue which constitute the chief source of the wealth
of nations; which create it, develop it, and preserve it. Wealth
increases, declines, and disappears with the increase, decline
and disappearance of these noble attributes of the soul.
</p>

<p>
Labor is the child of thought. Nothing happens in the external
world which was not first conceived in the mind. The
hand is the servant of the intellect; and its work is successful,
beautiful or useful in proportion to the activity and development
of the intellect, and in proportion as the just, the beautiful
and the good exert their power over it.
</p>

<p>
Production is, therefore, not a material, but a spiritual, work.
How, then, can acts and their morality be separated? How
not understand that the market of labor has its own distinct
<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>
laws, and that education, even from a material stand-point, becomes
the highest interest and the most important duty of
society, since on it depends the efficiency of labor?
</p>

<p>
From the time that, after a long series of years, the doctrine
of Christianity had permeated the law of the civilized world;
from the time that the teaching of Paul, that all men are children
of one Father, took form and body, and that the principle
of the equality of all men before their Maker, was supplemented
by the doctrine and by the practice of that equality
before the laws, the thinking masses have endeavored to discover
the wherefore of their actions, and the why of their sufferings.
They have called the past to account, and inquired
why they have obtained so limited a share.
</p>

<p>
The people, therefore, think; and it is, therefore, a matter of
importance that they should think aright. It is of importance,
that they should be guarded against fallacious Utopian promises.
Henceforth, there is no security for the stability of the
world but in the contentment of minds. There is no rest for
mankind, unless men will understand the conditions of their
destiny; unless, instead of running,
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l><q>Toujours insatiable et jamais assouvis,</q></l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
after the intoxicating cup of material enjoyment&mdash;for wants
not governed by the intellect and the heart are infinite in number,
and the gratification of one gives birth to another&mdash;they
submit to the law of sacrifice, and give play to the noblest
faculty with which the Creator has endowed us, moral empire
over self.
</p>

<p>
We shall meet on this road, hard of ascent, not only peace
of soul, but goods, more real and more numerous, than those
with which the allurements of error would dazzle our eyes.
The greatest obstacles to be overcome are not material ones,
but moral difficulties. As Franklin says, in substance, he that
tells you you can succeed, in any way but by labor and economy,
is a quack.
</p>

<p>
But labor is more productive in proportion as it is more intelligent,
<pb n='022'/><anchor id='Pg022'/>
as hand and mind keep pace with each other, as
good moral habits generate order and voluntary discipline.
</p>

<p>
Economy is sacrifice, binding the present to the future,
widening the horizon of thought, inspiring foresight, lengthening
the lever of human activity, by providing it with new instruments.
</p>

<p>
Life ceases to be a worry about how the body shall be sustained,
and the material world becomes the shadow of the
spiritual. The former is made to serve the latter, and man's
free effort lifts him into a higher region of thought, and into a
larger field of action. The more mind there is put into a piece
of work, says Channing, the more it is worth.
</p>

<p>
We, men of to-day, are lookers-on at a marvelous spectacle.
Steam furrows the earth. Industry has taken an immense
start. Mechanical force bends the most rebellious materials.
Chemistry, physics and the natural sciences are discovering a
new world. But whence all this? What is the principle of
this new life? We answer: intellectual and moral progress.
Mind has grown; the soul has been expanded. God has permitted
man to be free, and furnished him with the means to
be so.
</p>

<p>
Thus man, as Mignet has said, becomes that mighty creature
to whom God has given the earth for the vast theater of his
action, the universe as the inexhaustible object of his knowledge,
the forces of nature for the growing service of his wants,
by allowing him, by ever increasing information, to obtain an
ever increasing amount of well-being.
</p>

<p>
Man is free.&mdash;1789 put in action the sublime precept of the
gospel. He holds his destiny in his own hands. But the
rights which he enjoys impose new duties on him. If <emph>equality</emph>
be the sentiment which predominates in our day, we should
take care not to confound it with the leveling of Communism.
Nor is it externally to us, but within ourselves, that it should
be developed, by intellectual and moral culture.
</p>

<p>
History preserves the student from being led astray by a too
servile adherence to any system. It exposes the folly of the
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
<q>social contract,</q> and of the idyllic dreams of the advantages
of savage life. It shows that nature, instead of being prodigal
of her treasures, distributes them with a niggardly hand, and
that it is necessary to conquer her by labor, intelligence and patience
before we can control her.
</p>

<p>
It shows us human liberty growing stronger every day,
thanks to moral and intellectual progress, supported by the
two powerful props of property, the complement of man, the
material reflection of his spiritual power; and capital, the fruit
of abstinence, the symbol of moral power and the result of
enlightened activity.
</p>

<p>
History walks with a firm step, because it feels secure in a
knowledge of the laws of human nature, and in its experience
of the successive manifestations of social life. Instead of the
vagueness of ideal conceptions, it allows us to grasp and to
appreciate what is real in life. It does not confine itself to the
study of man. It makes us acquainted with <emph>men</emph>, whose
wants extend and are ennobled in proportion to the perfection
of their faculties. The feelings and the intellect are simultaneously
developed in man. The savage is the most egotistical
of men.
</p>

<p>
Hence, we believe that Political Economy cannot dispense
with the services of morals and philosophy, of history and
law; for these are branches of one common trunk, through
all of which the self-same sap circulates.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>V.</head>

<p>
The isolation of the theory of Political Economy is peculiar
to our own day. In more remote times, we find this study
confounded with the other moral sciences, of which it was an
integral part. When the genius of Adam Smith gave it a
distinct character, he did not desire to separate it from those
branches of knowledge without which it could only remain a
bleached plant from the absence of the sunlight of ethics.
</p>

<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>

<p>
We must renounce the singular idea,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Knies.</hi>
Die politische Œkonomie vom Standpunkte der geschichtlichen
Methode, Braunschweig, 1853.</note> that thousands of
years could pass away without leaving any trace of what enlightened
men had thought and elaborated in the matter of
Political Economy, among so many nations, and that people
should never have thought of cultivating this rich intellectual
domain, while in every other direction, it is easy for us to ascend
by a road already cleared up to the most remote antiquity.
</p>

<p>
It has already been acknowledged, that the <hi rend='italic'>classic domain</hi>,
fertilized by intellectual culture on a large scale and on a small
one, was exceedingly rich in valuable indications, although
they do not present themselves under the distinct form, which
later affected the different branches of public life.
</p>

<p>
As to the pretended <hi rend='italic'>primitive simplicity</hi> of the middle ages,
which it is claimed, prevailed during that period, a species of
economic vegetation, those who maintain it forget the long
series of communistic theories which, at near intervals, found
expression in many a bloody struggle, and whose repression required
the combined efforts of Church and State.
</p>

<p>
Doubtless, it is not in their modern forms that the elements
of politico-economical science are to be found, in the past. But
when we succeed in reuniting the scattered and broken parts;
when we have made our way into the customs, decrees, ordinances,
capitularies, laws and regulations of those times; when,
so to speak, we come, unaware, upon the life of nations, in the
most ingenuous and confidential documents which reflect it
most faithfully because most simply, we may well be astonished
at the results obtained. Where we expected, perhaps, to find
only erudition, we reap a rich harvest of lessons which are all
the more valuable for being disinterested.
</p>

<p>
Legislative and administrative acts frequently develop real
economic doctrines. It is easy to discover in them the onward
course of a theory which plunges directly into practical applications.
</p>

<p>
What results might we not expect from these efforts, if the
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
genius of investigation and of divination, which has so elevated
historical studies in our day, should have an observing
and penetrating eye in this direction! How limited was the
field on which Guérard erected the scientific monument which
he has left us in his <hi rend='italic'>Polyptique d'Irminon</hi>; and how precious
are the lessons he leaves us, since we have here to do, not
with the history of professed doctrines or unlooked-for events,
but with the historical development of economic society which
shows us the living march of principles.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>VI.</head>

<p>
Political Economy is not, as we have just said, a new science.
It has been a distinct science only a short time. Until
the eighteenth century, it was confounded with philosophy,
morals, politics, law and history. But it does not follow, that,
because it has grown so in importance, as to deserve a place
of its own, its intimate relationship with the noble studies
which had until then absorbed it should cease. There is another
consequence also to be deduced from this. From the
moment that Political Economy ceases to be considered a new
science, it finds a long series of ancestors behind it, since it
is compelled to investigate a past to which so many bonds
unite it. This duty may increase its difficulties, but, at the same
time, it singularly adds to the attractions of a study which, instead
of presenting us only with the arid deductions of dogmatism,
comes to us with all the freshness and all the color of
life.
</p>

<p>
We may allow those who make Political Economy simply a
piece of arithmetic to ignore these retrospective studies and
their importance; for mathematics has little to do with history.
But it is otherwise with the life of nations. These
would discover whence they come, in order to learn whither
they are tending.
</p>

<p>
They are not obeying a vain interest of curiosity, as J. B.
Say supposed, when, in sketching a short history of the progress
<pb n='026'/><anchor id='Pg026'/>
of Political Economy, he said: <q>However, every kind
of history has a right to gratify curiosity.</q> It is a thing to be
regretted, that this eminent thinker could thus ignore one of
the essential elements of the science to which he rendered
such great and unquestioned services. A sense for the historical
was wanting in him. <q>The history of a science,</q> he
writes,<note place='foot'>Cours Complet d' Economie politique, II,
540, éd. Guillaumin.</note> <q>is not like the narration of things that have happened.
What would it profit us to make a collection of absurd opinions,
of decried doctrines which deserved to be decried? It
would be at once useless and fastidious to thus exhume them
in case we perfectly knew the public economy of social bodies.
It can be of little concern to us to learn what our predecessors
have dreamed about this subject, and to describe the
long series of mistakes in practice which have retarded man's
progress in the research after truth. Error is a thing to be
forgotten, not learned.</q> As if that which was once to be
found in time is not to-day to be found in space; as if there
ever was an institution that did not have its
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>raison d' etre</foreign> and
had not constituted a resting place in the search after a higher
truth or of a more intelligent and salutary application of an old
one! There are a great many actual systems and a great
many present facts which can be understood only by the help
of history; and how frequently would not an acquaintance
with history serve to keep us from taking for marvelous inventions
the antiquated machinery of other ages, whose only
advantage and only merit are that they have remained unknown.
How much of the pretended daring of innovators has
been old trumpery which the wisdom of the times had cast
off as rubbish. Besides, as Bacon has said: <q>Verumtamen
sæpe necessarium est, quod non est optimum.</q>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>

<div>
<head>VII.</head>

<p>
It is not the result of mere chance that the greatest economists
have been both historians and philosophers. We need
only mention Adam Smith, Turgot, Malthus, Sismondi, Droz,
Rossi and Léon Faucher. It is too frequently forgotten that
the father of modern Political Economy, Adam Smith, looked
upon the science as only one part of the course of moral philosophy
which he taught at Glasgow, and which embraced
four divisions:
</p>

<p>
1. <hi rend='italic'>Universal theology.</hi>&mdash;The existence and attributes of
God; principles or faculties of the human mind, the basis of
religion.
</p>

<p>
2. <hi rend='italic'>Ethics.</hi>&mdash;Theory of the moral sentiments.
</p>

<p>
3. <hi rend='italic'>Moral principles relating to justice.</hi>&mdash;In
this, as we learn from one of Adam Smith's pupils in a sketch preserved by
David Stewart, he followed a plan which seems to have been
suggested to him by Montesquieu. He endeavored to trace the
successive advances of jurisprudence from the most barbarous
times to the most polished. He carefully showed how the
arts which minister to subsistence, and to the accumulation of
property, act on laws and governments, and are productive
of advances and changes in them analogous to those they experience
themselves.
</p>

<p>
In the first part of his course, as we learn from the same
authority, he examined the various political regulations not
founded on the principle of justice but in expediency, the
object of which is to increase the wealth, the power and the
prosperity of the state. From this point of view, he considered
the political institutions relating to commerce, finance, the
ecclesiastical and military establishments. His lectures on the
different subjects constitute the substance of the work he afterwards
published on the wealth of nations. A pupil of Hutcheson,
Adam Smith always applied the experimental method,
<q>which, instead of losing itself in magnificent and hazardous
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
speculations, attaches itself to certain and universal facts discovered
to us by our own consciousness, by language, literature,
history and society.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cousin.</hi></note>
Before taking the professorship
of philosophy, Adam Smith had taught belleslettres and rhetoric
in Edinburgh, in 1748. He had written a work on the
origin and formation of languages; and it was because he had
profoundly studied the moral sciences that it was given to him
to inaugurate a new science and to become a great economist.
Mr. Cousin has laid great stress on Adam Smith's taste and
talent for history. <q>Whatever the subject he treats, he turns
his eyes backward over the road traversed before himself, and
he illuminates every object on his path by the aid of the torch
which reflection has placed in his hand. Thus, in Political
Economy, his principles not only prepare the future but renew
the past, and discover the reason, heretofore unknown, of
ancient facts which history had gathered together without understanding
them. It is not saying enough to remark that
Adam Smith possessed a great variety of historical information;
we must add that he possessed the real historical spirit.</q>
Thanks to this eminent faculty of his, the Glasgow philosopher
acquired great influence over minds. In 1810, when the
French empire had reached the zenith of its greatness, Marwitz
wrote: <q>There is a monarch as powerful as Napoleon:
Adam Smith.</q> We need not recall Turgot's historical researches.
</p>

<p>
Malthus' chief title to distinction, his work on Population,
is as much a historical work as a politico-economical one; and
it is not sufficiently known that he was professor of history
and Political Economy in the college of the East India Company
at Aylesbury.
</p>

<p>
We need say no more on this subject. The works of the
other writers whom we have mentioned are too well known
to permit any one to think that they excluded history and
moral science from the study of Political Economy. Hence
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
the school which has risen up in Germany,<note place='foot'>We here append an extract
from <hi rend='italic'>Heinrich Contzen's</hi> Geschichte, Literatur,
und Bedeutung der Nationalökonomie, Cassel und Leipzig, 1876, p. 7:
<q>Roscher ... is rightfully considered the real founder and the principal
representative of the historical school. This school is continually gaining in
extent, and has found, both in Germany and in France, the most distinguished
disciples&mdash;men who honor Roscher as their teacher and master, the
leader whose beacon light they follow. Roscher combines the richest positive
learning with rare clearness and plastic beauty in the presentation of
his thought. These are conceded to him on every hand; and it does not detract
from him, or alter the fact that he possesses them, that, here and there, an
ill-humored or maliciously snappish critic calls them in question.</q> It should
be borne in mind here that Wolowski wrote in 1857; Contzen, like Wolowski,
a politico-economical writer of mark, in 1876.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Translator's
note.</hi></note> and which is endeavoring
to do for Political Economy what Savigny, Eichhorn,
Schrader, Mommsen, Rudorff, and so many other illustrious
scholars have done for jurisprudence, cannot be rightly
accused of rashness. It has done nothing but unfurl the noble
banner borne by the most venerated masters of the science.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>VIII.</head>

<p>
At the head of this school stands William Roscher, professor
of Political Economy at the University of Leipzig, whose
excellent work, The Principles of Political Economy, in which
he follows <emph>the historical method</emph>, we have just translated.
William Roscher is (1857) scarcely forty years of age. He
was born at Hanover, October 21, 1817. His laborious
and simple life is that of a worthy representative of the science.
<q>You ask me,</q> he wrote us recently, <q>to give you some information
concerning the incidents of my life. I have, thank
God, but very little to tell you. Lives whose history it is interesting
to relate are seldom happy lives.</q> He confined
himself to giving us a few dates which are, so to say, the
landmarks of a career full of usefulness. Roscher, from 1835
to 1839, studied jurisprudence and philology at the universities
of Göttingen and Berlin. The learned teachers who exercised
<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>
the greatest influence on his intellectual development
were the historians Gervinus and Ranke, the philologist K. O.
Müller and the Germanist Albrecht. It is easy to see that he
went to a good school, and that he profited by it. He was
made doctor in 1838; admitted in 1840 as <hi rend='italic'>Privat-docent</hi> at
Göttingen; appointed in 1843 professor extraordinary at the
same university, and called in 1844 to fill the chair of titular
professor at Erlangen. Since 1848 he has acted in the same
capacity in the University of Leipzig, where he was for six
years member of the Poor Board, where he teaches also in the
agricultural college. His fame has grown rapidly. Many of
the German universities have emulated one another for the
honor of possessing him, but he has not been willing to leave
Leipzig. His first remarkable work was his doctor's thesis:
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>De historicæ doctrinæ
apud sophistas majores vestigiis</foreign>, written
in 1838. In 1842, he published his excellent work, which has
since become classical: <q>The Life, Labors and age of
Thucydides.</q><note place='foot'>Leben, Werk und Zeitalter des Thukydides.</note>
From that time, important works, all bearing the
stamp of varied and profound scientific acquirements, and of
an erudition remarkable for sagacity and elegance, have followed
one another without interruption. In 1843, he treated
the question of luxury<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Rau's</hi>
Archiv., Heidelberg. This remarkable essay has since appeared in
Roscher's Ansichten der Volkswirthschalt vom geschichtlichen Standpunkte,
1861.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Translator's note.</hi></note>
with a master hand, and laid the foundation
of his great work&mdash;only the first part of which has
thus far appeared&mdash;at the same time tracing on a large scale
the programme of a course of Political Economy according
to the historical method.<note place='foot'>Grundriss zu
Vorlesungen über die Staatswirthschaft nach geschichtlichen
Methode.</note> In 1844, he published his historical
study on Socialism and Communism,<note place='foot'>Berliner
Zeitschrift für allgem Geschichte.</note> and in 1845 and 1846,
his ideas on the politics and the statistics of systems of agriculture.
He is, besides, author of an excellent work on the
<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>
corn-trade;<note place='foot'>Ueber Kornhandel und Theuerungspolitik, 3d ed.,
1852.</note> of a remarkable book on the colonial
system;<note place='foot'>Untersuchungen über das Kolonialwesen.</note>
of a sketch on the three forms of the state;<note place='foot'>Umrisse zur
Naturlehre der drei Staatsformen (Berliner Zeitschrift, 1847-1848).</note>
of a memoir on the relations between Political Economy and classical
antiquity;<note place='foot'>Ueber das Verhältniss der Nationalökonomie
zum klassischen Alterthume (K. Sachs Akademie der Wissenschaft, 1849).
Also to be found in Roscher's Ansichten
etc.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Translator.</hi></note> of
a work of the greatest interest, on the history of economic
doctrines in England in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries&mdash;a
work full of the most curious researches;<note place='foot'>Zur Geschichte
der englischen Volkswirthschaftslehre im 16 und 17 Jahrh.</note> of a book on
the economic principle of forest economy,<note place='foot'>Ein nationalökonom.
Princep der Forstwirthschaft.</note> and lastly, of the
great work, the first part of which we have translated, under the
title of The Principles of Political Economy, and which is to
be completed by the successive publication of three other volumes,
on the Political Economy of Agriculture, and the related
branches of primitive production, the Political Economy of
Industry and Commerce, and one on the Political Economy of
the State and the Commune. This work, when completed,
will be a real cyclopedia of the
science.<note place='foot'><p><hi rend='italic'>Roscher's</hi>
complete work he calls <q>A System of Political Economy.</q> It
embraces the four parts above referred to; but each of these parts constitutes
an independent work. The first part, or the Principles of Political Economy,
covers the ground generally covered by English treatises on Political Economy.
</p>
<p>
Besides the works above mentioned, <hi rend='italic'>Professor Roscher</hi> has
written Ansichten der Volkswirthschaft aus dem geschichtlichen Standpunkte, 2d ed.,
Leipzig, 1861; Die deutche Nationalökonomik an der Grenzscheide des sechszehnten
und siebenzehnten Jahrhunderts, Leipzig, 1862; Gründungsgeschichte
des Zollvereins, Berlin, 1870; Betrachtungen über die geographische
Lage der grossen Städte, Leipzig, 1871; Bertrachtungen über die Währungsfrage
der deutschen Münzreform, Berlin, 1872; Geschichte der Nationalökonomik
in Deutschland, Munich, 1874; Nationalökonomik des Ackerbaues,
8th ed., Stuttgart, 1875.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Translator's note.</hi>
</p></note>
</p>

<p>
Side by side with William Roscher, we must mention a
<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>
young economist, Knies, formerly professor at the University
of Marburg, but whom political persecution compelled to accept
a secondary position at the gymnasium of Schaffhausen,
for a time, and who fills, to-day, in the University of Freiburg,
in Breisgau, a position more worthy of his great talent. We
hope, in a work which we intend to publish, on Political
Economy in Germany, to make the public acquainted with the
works of this writer. They deserve to attract the most serious
attention. We know of few works which equal his Political
Economy, written on the historical method.<note place='foot'>Die
politische Œkonomie vom Standpunkte der geschichtlichen Methode.</note> We shall
also have something to say of another economist, formerly
professor at Marburg, a victim, also, of the power of the
elector of Hesse, Hildebrand, now professor at the University
of Zurich. His National-Œkonomie<note place='foot'>Die National
Œkonomie der Gegenwart und Zukunft.</note> is a book replete
with interest, and we have nowhere met with a better criticism
of Proudhon's system, than in its pages. If the new
school had produced but these three men, it would still have
left its impress on the history of the science.
</p>

<p>
Other works, no less important, will claim our attention in
the book to which we have already devoted many years of
labor. If we carry out our intention, we shall review the
works of a great many scholars, of great merit, whose names
only are, unfortunately, known outside of Germany. The
works of Rau, of Hermann, of Robert Mohl, of Hannsen,
Helferich, Schütz, Kosegarten, Wirth etc., are a rich mine,
from which we hope to draw much valuable information.
Nor shall we neglect the original productions of J. Moser, the
Franklin of Germany, nor the quaint, but sometimes striking,
ideas of Adam Müller. Lastly, our learned friend, Professor
Stein of Vienna, will afford us an opportunity to show forth
the merit of important and extensive works, animated by the
philosophic spirit. For the present, we must confine ourselves
to a view of the application of the historical method to Political
Economy.
</p>

<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>

<p>
There is a rather widespread prejudice existing against this
order of works, a souvenir of the struggle carried on formerly,
between Thibaut and Savigny, which inclines people to suppose
that the historical school leans towards the political doctrines
of the past, and that it is hostile to the liberal spirit
of modern times. Nothing can be farther from the truth.
The names of Roscher, Knies and Hildebrand are sufficient to
remove this prejudice. Their works, inspired by an enlightened
love for progress, do not allow of such a misconstruction.
The historical point of view does not consist in the worship of
the past, any more than in the depreciation of the present. It
does not view the succession of phenomena as a fluctuation of
events without unity or purpose. On the contrary, the historical
method harmonizes wonderfully well with the wants of
genuine progress. The changes accomplished bear testimony
to the free and creative power of man, acting within the limit
permitted to it by the degrees of intelligence reached, of the
development of morals, and of individual liberty. The philosophy
of Political Economy, which is the result of this calm
teaching, free from the passions of party&mdash;for science acknowledges
no adherence to party&mdash;is like that of law, opposed
to the, more or less, ingenious or rash dreams, which
build the world over again in thought. In showing how, at
all times, humanity has understood and applied the principles
which govern the production of wealth, it may say, with the
Roman jurisconsult: <q>Justitiam namque colimus ... æquum
ab iniquo separantes ... veram nisi fallor philosophiam, non
simulatam affectantes.</q> <q>The human mind,</q> says Rossi,
<q>endeavoring to attain to a knowledge of itself, estimating its
strength, taking a method, and applying it with a consciousness
of its mode of procedure to the knowledge of all things;
such is philosophy. Without it, there is no science in any
branch of human knowledge.</q> Thus do we rise, with the aid
of a critical mind, by careful investigation and great sagacity,
to the truths founded on observations made.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>

<div>
<head>IX.</head>

<p>
There is another method, which, starting out from principles,
evident of themselves, develops science by way of
conclusions drawn, after the manner of the geometricians.
The apparent severity and simplicity of this method are very
seductive, and very dangerous, when we have to deal not with
figures, but with men; when the varied, complex and delicate
exigencies which accumulate when human nature comes into
play do not exactly square with the formula; and, when instead
of dealing with abstractions, we have to tackle realities.
One of our venerated teachers, the illustrious Rossi, thought
he might remove the difficulty by drawing a distinction between
<emph>pure</emph> Political Economy and <emph>applied</emph> Political Economy.
It is not without a certain amount of hesitation that we dare
differ with so high an authority; but confess we must, this distinction
is far from satisfying us. The doubt it has left in our
mind has been the principal cause which has inclined us to
the historical method. <q>Rational Political Economy,</q> says
Rossi, <q>is the science which investigates the nature, the causes
and the movement of wealth, by basing itself on the general
and constant facts of human nature, and of the external world.
In applied Political Economy, the science is taken as the mean.
Account is taken of external facts. Nationality, time and
place play an important part.</q>
</p>

<p>
Let us for a moment accept these definitions; what is the
consequence? That there are two sciences, the one of which,
purely speculative, has more to do with philosophy than with
the permanent conflicts which agitate the world; the other of
which could not alone furnish us with rules in practice, nor
with a formulary for the measures to be taken in a given
case, since such a pretension would be both vain and ridiculous,
but which would inform the practical judgment of men
charged with the solution of the numberless difficult and complicated
questions which come up every day. If pure science
refuses to interfere in the affairs of this world; if, as the learned
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
originator of the doctrine we are just now considering gives
us to understand, it would compromise the solution of questions
by the intoxication of logic, and the ambition of perfect
system; if, consequently, it is to be worshipped like a motionless
and inactive divinity, how could this platonic satisfaction
suffice us? Would not the opponents of economic doctrines
be disposed to acknowledge all the principles, provided
the consequences to be drawn from them were left to themselves;
and would they not come to us, bristling with arguments
drawn from the circumstances of nationality, time and
space, to refute the possibility of applying pure science?
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l>On ne vaincra jamais les Romains que dans Rome.</l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
This, therefore, is the ground we must explore. We must
develop applied Political Economy which takes cognizance of
external circumstances. To do this, no one will question that
the best and most decisive of methods is the historical, which
concerns itself with time, space and nationality, and which
leads to proper reformation where reformation is wanted.
</p>

<p>
Moreover, principles will be no less firmly established by
historical induction than by dogmatic deduction, and, moreover,
science will be inseparable from art. We are not of
those who deny principles, or who challenge them. What
we desire is, that they should not be worshiped as fetiches,
but that they should enter into the very life-blood of nations.
</p>

<p>
Further: the abstract deductions of pure science do not
leave us without disquietude, since they treat man much more
like a material than like a moral force. Under the vigorous
procedure of speculative mathematics, man becomes a constant
quantity for all times and all countries, whereas he is, in reality,
a variable quantity. All the elements put in play are
ideal entities, the reverse of which we find in poetry, where
</p>

<quote rend='display'>
<lg>
<l>Tout prend un corps, une ame, un esprit, un visage!</l>
</lg>
</quote>

<p>
and where everything loses the character of life, and is transformed
into inanimate units. Man is something different from
<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>
the sum of the services he may be made to render, and from
the sum of enjoyments which may be procured for him. We
must not run the risk of lowering him to the level of a living
tool; and from the moment that we are required to take his
moral destiny into account, what becomes of abstract calculation?
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>X.</head>

<p>
We have been wrong, says Rossi, in reproaching Quesnay
for his famous <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laissez faire,
laissez passer</foreign>, which is pure science.
We, also, are of opinion that the reproach was ill
founded, for it proceeded from a wrong conception of the
principle itself. But it seems to us that, far from condemning
this doctrine in its serious application, the historical method
may serve to explain and to justify it. Employing less of
rigidity and dryness in form, it reaches consequences more in
harmony with social life. But it is not to be imagined that
we do not meet in this way with many ancient and glorious
precedents. The great principles of industrial liberty, as well
as those of commercial liberty, originated in France. Forbonnais
was right when he said: <q>We may congratulate
ourselves on being able to find, in our old books and ancient
ordinances, wherewith to vindicate for ourselves the right to
that light which we generally supposed to have been revealed
to the English and Dutch before us.</q> The further Forbonnais
carried his researches into our annals, the greater the number
of traces of opposition to the prejudices in favor of exclusion
and monopoly, so long made principles of administrative policy,
did he find.<note place='foot'>Recherches sur les Finances de France.</note>
</p>

<p>
The famous axiom, <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laissez
faire</foreign>, and <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laissez
passer</foreign>, the subversive
tendencies of which people affect to condemn, was not
invented by Quesnay. He only gave a scientific bearing to
what was the inspiration of a merchant called Legendre.
The latter, consulted by Colbert on the best means of protecting
<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>
commerce, dropped these words which have since become
so celebrated.
</p>

<p>
We must not lose sight of their real meaning, nor misunderstand
the intention which dictated them. What Quesnay
said was this: <q>Let everything alone which is injurious,
neither to good morals, nor to liberty, nor to property, nor to
personal security. Allow everything to be sold which has
been produced without crime.</q> And he added: <q>Only freedom
judges aright; only competition never sells too dear, and
always pays a reasonable and legitimate price.</q> Far from
being the absence of rule, liberty is the rule itself. To
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laisser faire</foreign>
the good is to prevent evil.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Frédéric
Passy</hi>, de la Contrainte et de la Liberté.</note>
</p>

<p>
There is need of institutions to complete the exercise of the
independence acquired by labor, and of laws to regulate that
exercise. The <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laisser faire</foreign>
and <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laisser passer</foreign> of economists
is, in no way, like the absolute formula, which some have denounced
and others sought to utilize, as relieving authority of
all care and all intervention.
</p>

<p>
To understand this maxim aright, we must go back to the
oppressive regime of ancient society. Quesnay's formula was,
first of all, a protest against the restraints which hampered the
free development of labor. But it did not tend to abrogate
the office of legislator, nor to deprive society or the individual
of the support of the public power which watches over the
fulfillment of our destiny.
</p>

<p>
It may have seemed convenient to find in the gravity of a
politico-economical principle, an excuse for the sweets of legislative
and administrative <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>far niente</foreign>,
but it is generally conceded
that the role of authority has grown, rather than diminished,
under the regime of the liberty of labor. The task is, in our
days, a hard one, both for individuals and nations; for liberty
dispenses its favors only to the masculine virtues of a laborious
and an enlightened people.
</p>

<p>
Liberty is not license. It refuses to bend under the yoke,
<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>
but it submits to rule. The mission of authority is not to constrain,
but to counsel; not to command, but to help accomplish;
not to absorb individual activity, but to develop it. It
does not pretend to raise a convenient indifference on the part
of government, nor the indolent withdrawal of all protective
influence to the dignity of a principle. To say, on the other
hand, that the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laisser
faire</foreign> and <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laisser
passer</foreign> of the economists
means: Let robbery alone; let fraud alone etc., is to amuse
one's self playing upon words, and to argue in a manner unworthy
of any serious answer. Under pretext of painting a
picture of economic doctrine, we are given its caricature.
Such has never been the system, to the elaboration of which
the purest hearts and noblest intellects have devoted themselves.
A negation does not constitute the science of Political
Economy.
</p>

<p>
It is very convenient to inclose humanity within a circle of
action, drawn with rigorous precision, and to govern movements
seen in advance. But such artificial conceptions mutilate
the activity of man. To guarantee man all liberty, and
prevent its abuse&mdash;such are the data of the problem. The
work is a great and difficult one. Far from yielding in point
of elevation to ideal systems, it is superior to them in extent
and variety of combinations. Those who ignore its bearing,
yield, it may be, to a certain indolence of intellect. Restrained
within its natural limits, the famous
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laisser faire</foreign>
and <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laisser
passer</foreign> of the Physiocrates deserves even to-day our respect
and our confidence. It ought to be preserved in the grateful
memory of men, side by side with the maxim which Quesnay
succeeded in having printed at Versailles, by the hand of
Louis XV himself: <q>Pauvres paysans, pauvre royaume;
pauvre royaume, pauvre souverain.</q><note place='foot'>Poor
peasantry, poor kingdom; poor kingdom, poor sovereign.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>

<div>
<head>XI.</head>

<p>
To return to the question of method. Rossi made use of
an ingenious example to explain his thought:<note place='foot'>Cours
d' Econ. polit., 2e., Leçon I, p. 33.</note> <q>Are,</q> he inquires,
<q>these deductions [of pure science] perfectly legitimate;
are these consequences always true? It is incontestably true
that a projectile, discharged at a certain angle, will describe a
certain curve; this is a mathematical truth. It is equally true,
that the resistance offered to the projectile by the medium
through which it moves modifies the speculative result in
practice, to some extent; this is a truth of observation. Is the
mathematical deduction false? By no means; but it supposes
a vacuum. I hasten to acknowledge it. Speculative economy
also neglects certain facts and leaves certain resistances out of
account.</q> Now, from the moment that we have to deal with
human interests, it is not possible to suppose a vacuum, to
neglect the most vulgar facts, and the most common instances
of resistance, nor to lose one's self in abstraction. The correctives
of applied Political Economy either may not wipe out this
original sin, or else they run great danger of covering up the
principles themselves. In ballistics, again, we may measure
the resistance which the medium in which we are obliged
to operate, makes the force of impulsion and the target both
obey the same law, and yield to the same process of calculation.
But is it thus when you touch upon man's innermost
and most sensitive part? Is there not danger that the hypotheses
may be deceitful, and that you may be accused of toiling
in a vacuum? We well know the solid reason that may be
opposed to sarcasm of this nature; but is it expedient to lay
one's self open to it?
</p>

<p>
Moreover, the consequences are not great enough to warrant
us to expose ourselves to the danger. The principles of
pure science are very small in number. They might even, be
easily reduced to one, of which M. Cousin has been the eloquent
<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>
interpreter&mdash;human liberty. This liberty has no need
of Political Economy to shine with the luster of evidence;
nothing can prevail against it. We can prove that it is as
fecund as it is respectable; but if the science of wealth should
endeavor to demonstrate the contrary, the primordial bases
of society, liberty, property and the family would not be less
sacred nor less necessary, for they are the right of humanity.
They could not be put aside, even under pretext of any mechanism
which would claim to produce more.<note place='foot'>This would
be: Propter vitiam, vitæ perdere causas.</note> These sovereign
principles of economy flow from the moral law, and they have
no reason to dread the power of facts, for the prosperity of nations
depends on the respect with which they are surrounded
and the guarantees by which they are protected.
</p>

<p>
We have spoken of the moral law; and, indeed, in our opinion,
it is impossible to banish it from the domain of public
economy. Any other point of view seems to us too narrow.
And when we see eminent men go astray in the pursuit of an
ideal which fails to take the human soul into account, and
which finds nothing but equations where there are feelings and
ideas, we cannot help thinking that they are unfaithful to the
thought of the founder of the science, Adam Smith. Man is
not simply a piece of machinery. He does not blindly submit
to external impulse. Rather is he himself, the greatest of impulses.
But to govern things, he must first learn to conquer
himself. Personal interest is the powerful motive which he
obeys. Man does not live alone, in a state of isolation, in the
world. <hi rend='italic'>Væ soli!</hi> He lives in society and profits by the relations
which he forms with other beings, intelligent like himself,
and for whom he has a natural feeling of sympathy.
</p>

<p>
The good that comes to them yields satisfaction to him, and
the evil that befalls them falls on him likewise. He cannot turn
back entirely upon his own personality. Besides his own interest,
he feels and shares another interest&mdash;the interest of all.
Personal interest is perfectly legitimate. The love of self cannot
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
be condemned. The Savior himself has enjoined us to love
our neighbor as ourselves. To love him more than ourselves
is a very high and beautiful virtue. It is the self-abnegation
which inspired Christian heroes. But heroism is rare, and cannot
be imposed, nor taken, as a rule. Personal interest is a
powerful stimulant, and the superior harmony of social relations
makes it contribute to the general good.
</p>

<p>
What must be condemned is a fatal deviation of this sentiment
which destroys its effect and narrows its actions. What
we need to prevent is the degeneration of personal interest into
an egotism which parches, instead of fertilizing, and which
compromises the future by the exclusive search after present
advantage; for egotism is short-sighted. On the other hand,
the broader and more generous feeling which inclines us to
sympathize with our fellow beings in their sorrows, and to
unite our destiny to theirs; that is, the feeling of the general
interest, has a limit too.
</p>

<p>
It would be falsified if it absorbed the individual; if it destroyed
the most powerful motive-force by drying up the abundant
source of activity; if it attacked moral energy by enervating
responsibility; if it extended the circle of results obtained
to such an extent that scarcely any one should feel the rebound.
</p>

<p>
The evil produced by egotism, that sad travesty of personal
interest, appears under a form quite as formidable when the
general interest takes the form of communism. The coöperation
of personal interest and of the general interest is always
necessary, both for individual profit and social advantage.
There is as much danger in annihilating the individual as in
exalting him. History furnishes us with memorable examples
of this. It does not allow us to go astray in the narrow ways
of a peevish and jealous personality, nor to lose ourselves in
the vague labyrinth of a chimerical and false communism.
The latter would destroy what constitutes the power and dignity
of man. It would wipe out the most prominent features
of his noble nature, by destroying the support of energy and
activity and the food of moral force.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>

<div>
<head>XII.</head>

<p>
But, we are told, Political Economy is only the science of
selfishness; Adam Smith is the prophet of individualism; grow
rich <hi rend='italic'>per fas et nefas</hi> is its ultimate teaching. Such a judgment
is evidence of much levity and little enlightenment.
How could the man who conceived the study of human interests
on so large a scale, the philosopher who acknowledged
Hutcheson as his master and gave his ideas a still more expansive
character, be the apostle of egotism; and how can the
science which he founded be its gospel? There is here an
error of fact and a defect of appreciation. Hutcheson had
based moral philosophy on the feeling which, according to
him, engendered all the other virtues, on benevolence, which
is disinterested, busied with the welfare of others, with the
public weal and the general interest. Adam Smith went further,
and sought to base it on a still more energetic feeling,
on sympathy.
</p>

<p>
The first sentence of his Theory of the Moral Sentiments,
which is a full resumé of his theory, is as follows: <q>How
selfish soever man may be supposed, there are evidently some
principles in his nature which interest him in the fortune of
others, and render their happiness necessary to him, though
he derives nothing from it, except the pleasure of seeing it.</q>
And this is no empty declaration on his part. It is the thought
which of all in his book is nearest to his heart; and hence he
energetically assails those philosophers who look upon self-love
and the refinements of self-love as the universal cause of
all our sentiments, and seek to explain sympathy by self-love.
</p>

<p>
La Rochefoucauld, Mandeville and Helvetius never met
with a more determined or energetic adversary. Nowhere
have the sweet and amiable virtues, such as ingenuous condescension,
indulgent humanity, and the respectable and severe
virtues, such as disinterestedness and self-control which subject
our movements to the requirements of the dignity of our
<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>
nature, been better understood or interpreted. Adam Smith
is the philosopher of sympathy.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cousin</hi>,
loc. cit., p. 276.</note> His theory triumphs over
the cowardly and shameful egotism which concentrates the
moral life of the individual in himself, and separates it from
the life of the human race of the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>outré</foreign> stoicism which refuses
the aid of sentiment to reason.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ibid.</hi>,
274.</note> According to him, the law
of private morals is sympathy; the law of natural jurisprudence,
justice; the law of the production of wealth, free labor.
But while he defended this principle with energy, he did not
become guilty of a real recantation by worshiping the idol he
had just overthrown. He would have been culpable of the
strangest of all contradictions if he had made the vice which
he had just lacerated the very pivot of another part of his
teaching.
</p>

<p>
We regret that this essay, which has already very much
exceeded the limits we assigned it in the beginning, will not
permit us to reproduce here Knies' beautiful demonstration, in
which he so learnedly and eloquently vindicates Adam Smith
from this strange imputation, thereby placing Political Economy
on its true basis, the basis of morals, by removing in a
decisive way, all pretext of error and all means of subterfuge.
This part is one of the best features in his most excellent work
on <q>Political Economy, from the historical Point of View.</q>
We shall return to this matter.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>XIII.</head>

<p>
What is there that political economists have not been charged
with? They have been accused, above all, of a cold heartedness
and cruelty, and the sentence passed on them has been
resumed in these words: <q>Political Economy has no bowels!</q>
Indeed, the representative of the science, who has been most
attacked and who has been held up as a picture of impassible
insensibility; on whom have been heaped the most bloody outrages,
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
is Malthus. Let us hear him. He tells us in his work
on Political Economy, that if a country had no other means
to grow rich, except by seeking for success in the struggle
with other countries, at the cost of a reduction of the wages of
labor, he would unhesitatingly say: Away with such riches;
that it is much to be desired that the working classes should
be well remunerated, and this for a reason much more important
than all the considerations relating to wealth; that is, the
happiness of the great mass of society. And he goes on to
say, that he knows nothing more detestable than the idea of
knowingly condemning the laboring classes to cover themselves
with rags, to lodge in wretched huts, to enable us to
sell a few more stuffs and calicoes to foreign countries. Certain
it is, that no defender, however determined, of the laboring
classes, has said anything stronger or more deeply felt. The
reason is, that nothing was more foreign to Malthus' ideas
than the systematic rigidity of mathematical theories of wealth;
that, a minister of the Gospel, he had meditated on its high
precepts. His whole doctrine is based on the moral idea.
<q>He was profoundly convinced that there are principles in
Political Economy which are true only in as far as they are
restricted within certain limits. He saw the principal difficulty
of the science in the frequent combination of complicated
causes, in the action and reaction of causes on one another,
and in the necessity of setting limits or making exceptions to a
great number of important propositions.</q> Here we are ever
brought back to the undulating ground of living science, instead
of having to follow the rectilineal way traced out by the dead
letter. We are always driven back, whatever may be pretended
to the contrary, to the realities of which history alone
possesses the secret. The idea of wealth cannot absorb everything
when there is question of judging and enlightening men.
To do this, it is necessary to know the various phases of social
housekeeping, what nations have thought of economic interests
<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>
which have never ceased to interest them greatly, what they
have attempted and what they have attained.
</p>

<p>
Hence, we must turn over the leaves of the book of the past,
and study its economic aspect, as we have studied its political
and literary aspect. We must follow living nations through
their divers periods of development, and fathom the causes of
the destruction of those that are dead. When we are dealing
with the comparative study of the economic destinies of nations,
our investigations are limited to a small number of individual
nations&mdash;a further reason not to omit any, and above
all, to scrutinize, as an anatomist would with his scalpel, the
principle of life of those which are no more. We may, by
accounting to ourselves for the immense variety of phenomena
which are brought to light by the <emph>application</emph> of principles to
facts, and in which nothing is absolute or permanent, in which,
on the contrary, everything is relative and successive, acquire
that sureness of touch and correctness of vision which are
among the most valuable conquests of science.
</p>

<p>
It would be a mistake to suppose that theory simplifies practical
solutions. Far from providing us with a sort of formulary,
it teaches us to put our finger on a number of difficulties.
It brings to the surface the many aspects and fertile and varied
considerations, the examination of which is the mission of the
real statesman and legislator. In this way, the action of thought
and the power of the moral idea are revealed with most <hi rend='italic'>éclat</hi>.
Man ceases to be an inert element, and manifests himself as a
sensible being, and the sublime thought of Pascal: <q>Humanity
is like one man who lives and learns always,</q> is verified by
the result. The wish to violently abdicate the past, it would
be vain and rash to attempt to realize. The lessons it transmits
to us are as instructive as the picture it unrolls before our
eyes is attractive. We have no longer but to see and hear, to
be cured of the most generous impatience with what is, and to
retreat from the most perilous attempts.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='046'/><anchor id='Pg046'/>

<div>
<head>XIV.</head>

<p>
The unvarying testimony of ages affirms the continued and
gradual amelioration of man by individual energy and moral
thought.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Frédéric Passy</hi>: De
la Contrainte et de la Liberté.</note> Want and suffering have urged him forward.
Foresight, labor, sacrifice and virtue have in part redeemed
him. No right has been lessened or usurped, and every step
in civilization has been a step in the way of freedom. Instead
of making the latter responsible for a material and moral
wretchedness which it is called upon to cure, we may prove,
that, in proportion as real liberty and legal guarantees increase,
evil diminishes.
</p>

<p>
We do not desire to yield to a convenient optimism, and deny
the sufferings which weigh only too heavily on the world.
We are far from having reached the end assigned to our efforts;
but let not the hope we entertain of further progress blind
us to that which has already been accomplished. This latter
shows us that we are on the right road, and that we have not
done unwisely in giving free rein to the human faculties.
Sudden changes are made only in theaters. In the real world,
the march of progress is slow and laborious. It may be accelerated
by a happy hit; but it would be vain to try to hurry it.
</p>

<p>
Man still suffers. No one desires to deny the evil, but only
to estimate its extent. Yet it cannot be gainsaid that its fatal
empire is narrowing instead of enlarging. Especially is it the
progress accomplished in the higher regions of intellect and of
the feelings which here exerts its beneficent influence. On
our moral greatness depends our material power. The elevation
or debasement of character, the energy or debility of
the will&mdash;such is the first source of good or evil. The world,
a Chalmers rightly says, is so constituted that we should be
materially happy if we were morally good.
</p>

<p>
Industrial progress helps, we have said, towards moral perfection.
It is not the source of that perfection, but its instrument;
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
for ignorance and misery, its habitual attendants, are
poor advisers. Political Economy shows how the goods of
this world are multiplied. It shows how modest comfort may
become more and more general, and thus an impetus be given
to all noble virtues without awakening a blind passion for riches.
It teaches moderation instead of exciting covetousness, nor
does it come in conflict with the sublime words of Saint Augustine:
<q>The family of men, living by faith, use the goods of the
earth as strangers here, not to be captivated by them or turned
away by them from the goal to which they tend, which is God,
but to find in them a support which, far from aggravating,
lightens the burthen of this perishable body which weighs
down the soul.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<head>XV.</head>

<p>
Looked at from below, all things diverge. Looked at from
above, all things run into one another and combine with one
another. It is one of the great merits of the historical method,
that it raises the point of observation and gives the observer
the support of tradition and good sense, that master of life;
that it prevents a divorce between different branches of knowledge
of the same order, which constitute but one intellectual
family, which there is no question of confounding, and which
it would be dangerous to isolate.
</p>

<p>
Aristotle, that universal genius, had discovered Political
Economy, and it was the historical method which revealed it to
him. Be it added, that the great philosopher had seen but
one phase of the science, chrematistics, and that his ideas here
bear the impress of the age in which he lived. Aristotle,
however, distinguished this science from all others and from
domestic economy, which is so akin to it. Doubtless, he did
not found the modern study of Political Economy, but his
powerful intellect gave him a presentiment of it.
</p>

<p>
The honor of producing at once, Adam Smith, Quesnay and
Turgot belongs to the eighteenth century. It was in the
<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>
course of philosophy at Glasgow that this study found a definite
place. The illustrious founder of the science of Political
Economy did not contemplate dissolving the ancient alliance
between it and the moral sciences, history, philosophy, jurisprudence,
belles-lettres&mdash;all of which he had explored and
studied profoundly. Let those whose ambition it is to walk,
even at a distance, in the footsteps of Adam Smith, not forget
what was the cradle of the noble study to which they have
devoted their intellects.
</p>

<p>
L. WOLOWSKI.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Introduction.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter I. Fundamental Ideas.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter I.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter I.</head>
<head>Fundamental Ideas.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section I. Goods&mdash;Wants.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section I.'/>
<anchor id="Section_1"/>
<head type='sub'>Section I.</head>
<head>Goods&mdash;Wants.</head>

<p>
The starting point, as well as the object-point of our science
is Man.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, Deutsche
Vierteljahrsschrift (1861), emphasizes this. <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi>, Wealth of Nations (1776), very characteristically, begins with the
yearly labor of the nation; <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi> (Traité d'Economie
Politique, 1802), with <hi rend='italic'>richesses</hi>;
<hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi> (Principles of Political Economy and Taxation, 1817),
with the idea of value.</note>
</p>

<p>
Every man has numberless wants, physical and intellectual.<note place='foot'>The
sum total of the wants (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Bedarf</foreign>)
of the Bavarian people, for a whole year, is estimated by
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatswirthschaftliche Untersuchungen (2d
ed., 1870, p. 81), at 177,000,000 florins for food (77 millions for wheat and potatoes,
69 millions for meat, 15 millions for milk etc., 16 millions for eggs,
vegetables, salt and spices); 50 millions for clothing, 45 millions for shelter,
37.5 millions for fuel, 60 millions for beverages.</note><note place='foot'>The
original adds: <foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>deren Gesammtheit sein
Bedarf heisst</foreign>; the aggregate of which is called his [man's] Requisite
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Bedarf</foreign>). There being no exact
equivalent in English for the word
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Bedarf</foreign> in this connection,
this note is appended.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Translator.</hi></note>
Wants are either necessaries, decencies
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Anstandsbedürfnisse</foreign>)
or luxuries. The non-satisfaction of necessary wants causes
disease or death; that of the wants of decency endangers one's
<pb n='052'/><anchor id='Pg052'/>
social position.<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>
(ob. 1714) Traité des Grains, I., c. 4, the wants
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>nécessaire</foreign>,
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>commode</foreign>,
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>délicat</foreign>,
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>superflu</foreign>,
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>magnifique</foreign>, arise in
successive order with increasing welfare or prosperity, and are surrendered in a reverse
order, with increasing need. <hi rend='italic'>Tucker</hi> distinguishes necessaries,
comforts, and conveniences of the respective conditions, elegancies and refinements,
and lastly, <q>grand and magnificent.</q> (Two Sermons, 1774, 29 ff.);
<hi rend='italic'>F. B. W. Hermann</hi>, loc. cit, 1st, ed., 1832, 68; necessary
goods (Güter der Nothdurft), goods that contribute to pleasure and recuperation,
to culture and splendor.</note> The much greater number, and the longer
continuance of his wants are among the most striking differences
between man and the brute:<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Tucker</hi>,
On the Naturalization Bill (1751 seq.), IV, note.</note> wants such as clothing,
fuel,<note place='foot'>No people without fire (Prometheus!); and it seems that
broiling was the earliest mode of preparing food; then followed baking in heated
cavities, and lastly came boiling in vessels. (<hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>,
Allgemeine Kulturgeschichte, I, 180, 343.)</note> tools, and those resulting
from his much longer period
of infancy; which last, together with other causes, has contributed
so largely to make marriage necessary and universal.
While the lower animals have no wants, but necessities, and
while their aggregate-want, even in the longest series of
generations, admits of no qualitative increase, the circle of
man's wants is susceptible of indefinite extension.<note place='foot'>There
is an interesting attempt by <hi rend='italic'>Faucher</hi>, in the Vierteljahrsschrift
für Volkswirthschaft und Kulturgeschichte, 1868, III, 148 ff., to determine the
relative place of our various wants according to their capacity for extension or
contraction.</note> And,
indeed, every advance in culture made by man finds expression
in an increase in the number and in the keenness of his
rational wants. No man who distinguishes himself in anything,
but feels spurred thereto by a peculiar want; and this
want is both the cause and the effect of the power which is
peculiar to him. No one but the poet feels the want of poetizing;
no one but the philosopher, of philosophizing. In
every particular, intellectual or physical, in which the man is
in advance of the child, he experiences new wants unknown
to the child. Our education consists, for the most part, in
awakening wants and providing for their satisfaction.
</p>

<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>

<p>
Goods are anything which can be used, whether directly or
indirectly, for the satisfaction of any true<note place='foot'>The
qualification <q>true,</q> excludes from the circle of goods, not only all
those things which might satisfy only irrational or immoral wants (compare
<hi rend='italic'>Mischler</hi>, Grundsätze der Nationalökonomie, 1856, I, 187),
but also vindicates the fundamental idea of the whole system of Political Economy,
as a subject of moral as well as of psychological investigation.</note>
or legitimate human want,<note place='foot'>Even <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>
(Eth. nicom. V, 8), considers that all things intended to
enter into commerce, should be susceptible of comparison with one another,
and that the measure of this comparison is <emph>want</emph>, which is the foundation
of all association among men.</note> and whose utility, for this purpose, is recognized.
Hence, the idea goods is an essentially relative one. Every
change in man's wants, or knowledge, is accompanied by a
rapid, corresponding change, either in the limits of the circle<note place='foot'>An
Arab helped pillage a caravan, and carried away, as his share of the
booty, a chest of pearls. He thought it a box of rice, and gave them to his wife
to cook, but finding they did not boil tender, he threw them away.
(<hi rend='italic'>Niebuhr</hi>, Beschreibung von Arabien, 383). See a similar
anecdote in <hi rend='italic'>Ammian. Marcell.</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>XXII</hi>.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>VIII</hi>, 381.</note>
of goods, or in their relative importance. Thus, the tobacco plant
has, probably, existed thousands of years. It became goods,
however, only from the time that man recognized its use for
smoking, snuffing etc., and experienced the want of it for these
purposes. In a similar way, the limestone of the Solenhofen
quarries has become <emph>goods</emph>, of considerable importance, only
since the invention of lithography; decaying bones, only since
that of bone-dust manure; caoutchouc since about 1825, and
gutta-percha, only since 1844. On the other hand, charms,<note place='foot'>As
soon as the Persians renounce the superstition that the daily contemplation
of a turquoise is a talisman against the "evil eye" (<hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>,
Erdkunde, VIII, 327), that precious stone will lose much of its value. On the
other hand, the amulets of antiquity, although they have long lost the quality
of goods as objects of superstition, have now a real value for the archæologist.</note>
philters, and even relics, since the decay of faith in their efficacy,
have lost the quality of goods. If the aggregate income
of all mankind were, by some sudden revolution, to be
equally divided among all, diamonds, for instance, would
<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>
greatly decline in value, for the reason that it is dependent, in
great part, on the wants generated by vanity, or by the desire
of outshining others. Beer, tobacco etc., would rise in the
scale as goods, because the circle of those to whose wants
they minister would have been very greatly extended. On
the whole, advancement in civilization has uniformly the effect,
of itself, to increase the quantity and number of goods, the
wants and knowledge of men being thereby increased. We
should reach the ideal here, if all men experienced only true
or legitimate wants, but these completely; if they could see
their way, clearly, to the satisfaction of them, and find the
means of satisfying them with just the amount of effort most
conducive to their physico-intellectual development.<note place='foot'>Since
observation shows, that, as time runs on, matter tends more and
more to become <emph>goods</emph>, the blind forms of motion in nature to become useful
labor and useful sustenance, impersonal and objectless existence to be transformed
into personal property and personal culture, <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi> inclines to
the belief that the whole mechanism of unconsciously governing nature is destined
ultimately to aid in the realization of moral good, which alone is really
valuable. Das gesellschaftliche System der menschlichen Wirthschaft, III,
Auff., 1873, I, 3.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section II. Goods.&mdash;Economic Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section II.'/>
<anchor id="Section_2"/>
<head type='sub'>Section II.</head>
<head>Goods.&mdash;Economic Goods.</head>

<p>
By economy (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Wirthschaft</foreign>=husbandry
or housekeeping), we mean the systematized activity of man, to satisfy his need
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Bedarf</foreign>=requisite) of external
goods.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, loc. cit, 1st ed., I,
calls internal goods whatever each of us finds in himself, the free gift of nature; also
that which we develop in ourselves by our own free action; and external, whatever we
create or obtain, through the external world, as a means of satisfying our wants. The
internal goods of one man may be external goods to another, as, for instance, when
the former conveys them directly to the latter to be enjoyed, by words, demeanor,
etc., or indirectly, in combination with other external goods.</note>
This treatise is concerned only with economic goods (ends or means of
economy).<note place='foot'>The exclusion of all else, has, indeed, been called
one-sidedness and materialism. But, as <hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi> says, no one blames
the writer on tactics, because he confines his attention to military subjects; nor is the
objection raised, that by so doing, he is encouraging eternal war. On the other hand,
<hi rend='italic'>J. B. Storch</hi> (1815) devoted a special division of his work to
the consideration of <q>internal goods</q> (health, knowledge, morality, security,
leisure,.etc.). See <hi rend='italic'>Rau's</hi> translation of his Manual, II,
337 ff. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Gioja</hi>, Nuovo Prospetto delle
Scienze economiche, 1815 ff. VIII.</note>
The greater the advance of civilization or human culture,
<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>
the less apt are men to pursue the satisfaction of their
wants, isolated from their fellows, or, in other words, to carry
on their economies or husbandries apart from one another.
The more numerous the wants of men, and the more different
in kind their faculties are, the more natural does exchange<note place='foot'>The
inclination to exchange is, according to <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, one of the
most important marks which distinguish man from the brute. (Wealth of Nations,
I, ch. 2). But see <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlanf (1780), I, § 29, on
exchange among the lower animals.</note> become.
Since all goods derive their character as goods from
the fact that they are destined to satisfy human wants, the
very possibility of exchange must greatly increase the possibility
of things to become goods. Think of the machinist,
whose products are used only by the astronomer, while the
latter is never in a way to manufacture them for himself.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hufeland.</hi>) Commerce is the series of combinations, created
by the interchange of services: <q>a living net of relations,
which wants and services are ever weaving and unweaving.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Hermann.</hi>) As a rule, with an advance in civilization, there
is an increase in the number of goods, which become economic
goods, and in the number of economic goods which become
commercial goods (objects or means promotive of commerce).<note place='foot'>Observed
by <hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi> Polit. I, ch. 6.</note>
But this is to be considered a real advancement only to the
extent that that which is obtained is superior to that which
was possessed before, in consequence of the specialization of
callings or the greater division of labor (§ <ref target="Section_48">48</ref> ff.).
When a little street Arab exacts money from a stranger for pointing
out the way, we rightly censure him; but no one would find
<pb n='056'/><anchor id='Pg056'/>
it improper if he should first fit himself to play the part of a
guide, and then live by his calling.<note place='foot'>The efforts
of political economists to select from among the infinite number
of goods, those which should constitute the subject of their investigations,
have taken two directions in recent times. <hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi> here confines
himself too exclusively to commerce. The political economist should concern himself
only with wants and satisfactions, where the labor, which is the connecting
link between them, is undertaken by some other person for a consideration.
Thus the ordinary act of respiration lies outside the circle, that of the diver,
which is paid for, does not. (Harmonies économiques, 1850, 68 ff.) But
even Robinson Crusoe had his own system of economy. Are the products
which the farmer consumes in his own home, the work he does himself, any
the less matters of economic moment than the products he sells, or the labors
of his servants? <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi> is right when he says that ordinary
respiration is no economic function, because it is an unconscious necessity of nature.
But his definition is too broad, inasmuch as he places the essence of the economic
character of goods or of an act, in the conscious adaptation of means to
human ends. (Tübinger Progr. z. 27 Sept. 1862, 9, 24 seq.) To take a
walk is no economic operation, although it may be the best means to a very
important end,&mdash;health. The same goods or the same act may have, frequently,
according to the end proposed, an economic or non-economic character.
The beauty of the human body, for instance, however systematically
made use of for purposes of vanity, is not economic <emph>goods</emph>. But it is an
economic speculation, base though it be, when a man relies on his handsome
figure to secure a wealthy wife, or, for purposes of gain, allows her to pose as
a model to artists or to take part in
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>tableaux vivants</foreign>. According to
<hi rend='italic'>C. Menger</hi>,
Grundsätze der Volkswirthschaftslehre (1871) I, 51 ff., there are no economic
goods, but those the disposable supply of which is, at most, equal to
the quantity that is required. But is not the largest navigable stream, even
in the most thinly populated country, an economic good?</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section III. Goods.&mdash;The Three Classes Of Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section III.'/>
<anchor id="Section_3"/>
<head type='sub'>Section III.</head>
<head>Goods.&mdash;The Three Classes Of Goods.</head>

<p>
All economic goods are divided into three classes:
</p>

<p>
A. <hi rend='italic'>Persons or personal services.</hi> It is entirely repugnant to
the feeling of humanity to regard a man's person in its entirety
as an instrument intended to satisfy the wants of
another.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Hegel</hi>, Rechtsphilosophie, § 67. Even
the use of a corpse as manure, or for any mercantile purpose, is repugnant to our
feelings, <q>because of the dignity of personality.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
National Œkonomie, 1860, 28.) In this respect, prostitution is a remnant of slavery.
<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi> is right, when he says
that to repay personal services with material commodities which do not afford
as much food etc., as the former have cost in expenditure of vital energy, is a
slow and frequently a very cruel kind of cannibalism. (Kapitalismus und
Socialismus, 1870, 18).</note>
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
Yet this happens wherever slavery exists; in its coarsest form,
in cannibalism. Among civilized nations, we can speak, under
this head, only of individual services or capabilities of persons;
or, indeed, of the aggregate of the services rendered by them
during a time determined at pleasure, or a short
time.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Bornitz</hi>, De rerum Sufficientia in
Republica procuranda, 1625, gives in this
encyclopædia of political science, together with a dissertation on agriculture,
commerce and manufactures, a complete survey of the <hi rend='italic'>ministeria</hi>.
Several modern writers refuse to look upon personal services, or the ability
to render such services, as elements of wealth: compare <hi rend='italic'>Kaufmann</hi>,
Untersuchungen im Gebiete der politischen Œkonomie, 1830, II, Heft I. They
demonstrate, however, no more than this, that that class of goods has something
very peculiar. Thus <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Principles of Political Economy
(1820), chap. I, sect. I, objects that they cannot be inventoried or taxed; but can
material goods be so completely? Can all the parts of the wealth of a nation
be so inventoried and taxed? <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch der pol. Œkonomie
(1826) I, § 46, remarks that the personal aptitude to perform services dies with the
person, and that personal services cannot be stored up (?), etc. I appeal
simply to the definition I have given above of economic goods, and which
applies equally to services of every kind which can be performed for other
people. Besides, those who oppose this view are unable to give a satisfactory
explanation of all the phenomena of commerce. Of course, the qualification
<q>recognized as useful</q> is of the utmost importance as a mark to determine
what is goods. But a prima donna, or a world-renowned physician, cast naked
by shipwreck on the shores of North America, is certainly, better off
than a blind beggar, his fellow sufferer. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>,
Handbuch II, 335 ff. and his Considérations sur la Nature du Revenu National.</note>
</p>

<p>
B. <hi rend='italic'>Things</hi>, both moveable and
immovable.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi> compares persons,
so far as they render any kind of service, to
things, and, so far as they are required to be preserved in their individuality, to
persons. The children in the <q>status</q> of a country gentleman, for instance,
are treated more as persons, and domestics, more like things; the land partakes
of a species of personality, but not the implements of labor. (Nothwendigkeit
einer theolog. Grundlage der Staatswissenschaft, 1819, 48.)</note>
</p>

<p>
C. <hi rend='italic'>Relations</hi> to persons or things which may frequently be
estimated just as accurately as material goods. (The <hi rend='italic'>res
incorporales</hi>
<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>
of the Roman law.) I need only mention what is
called good-will, which freely, and to the advantage of customers
themselves, but still with a limited amount of certainty,
attaches to certain localities, and for which tavern-keepers,
sometimes, as in theaters, dépôts and clubs, pay so enormous
a rent.<note place='foot'>The privilege of selling refreshments in the garden of
the Palais Royal was formerly let for 38,000 francs a year.</note>
When a newspaper is sold, the purchaser frequently
buys nothing but the existing relations between his colaborers,
subscribers etc. No small part of the value of a good business
firm consists in the confidence with which it inspires all
who deal with it, thus sparing them a world of care and
trouble.<note place='foot'>See the cases cited by <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>,
Staatswirtsch. Untersuchungen, 6 ff. and by <hi rend='italic'>Bernoulli</hi>, Schweiz.
Archiv. für Statistik und N. Œkon. II, 55. Think of the firm of J. M. Farina!
In Athens, good stands were leased at a very high rent, even where there was no
investment of the lessee's capital. (<hi rend='italic'>Demosthenes</hi>,
pro. Phorm., 948; adv. Steph. I, iiii.) There is, again, the sale of inventions,
while they are still <q>mere ideas.</q> According to <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
Theorie der ausschliessendnen Verhältnisse, 1857, II ff., the value in exchange of these
relations depends on the extra income which is assured in fact, or in law,
against diminution, by the exclusion of competition. He, therefore, recommends,
instead of the word <q>relations,</q> <q>custom,</q> or <q>publicum.</q> But these
words, by no means, exhaust the meaning expressed by <q>relation.</q> Thus,
the good administration of public affairs, although it has no value in exchange,
is one of the most valuable economic goods which a people can
possess.</note> A general may be of incalculable value to an army
which he has himself helped organize. In another, or in the
service of a country not his own, he might be entirely valueless,
incapable of accomplishing anything.<note place='foot'>The relation mentioned above
of a general to an army may even have great value in exchange. Instance,
the Italian condottieri in the fifteenth century!</note> With the progress
of civilization, as man becomes more social, the number of
valuable relations increases, while that of legalized monopolies
is wont to decrease. (<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle.</hi>)<note place='foot'>Relations
which take from one man, as much as they afford to their
possessor, are of value as components of a man's private fortune, but not of
the wealth of the nation. To this class belong debts due from persons or
from things, compulsory custom or good-will of every description; as for instance,
the seventy-two places of the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>agents de
change</foreign> in Paris, each of which was worth more than a million of francs; or
the right of navigating the Elbe as far as Magdeburg, which, about the beginning of
this century, was worth in every instance about 10,000 thalers.
(<hi rend='italic'>Krug</hi>, Abriss. der St. Œkonomie, 62.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section IV. Of Value.&mdash;Value In Use.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section IV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section IV.</head>
<head>Of Value.&mdash;Value In Use.</head>

<p>
The economic value of goods is the importance they possess
for the purposes of man, considered as engaged in economy
(housekeeping, husbandry.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
N. Œkonomie, 10. In the German language, this same word
is used to designate utility, and sometimes useful objects (so called values).
A clear distinction, however, should be made between utility and value in
use. Utility is a quality of things themselves, in relation, it is true, to human
wants. Value in use is a quality imputed to them, the result of man's
thought, or of his view of them. Thus, for instance, in a beleagured city, the
stores of food do not increase in utility, but their value in use does. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, System, III, I, 170.</note>)
</p>

<p>
Looked at from the point of view of the person who wishes
to employ them in his use directly, doubtless the oldest point of
view, value appears first as value in use; and here, according
to the difference of subjective purposes it is intended to subserve,
we may speak of production value or enjoyment-value;
and of this last, in turn, as utilization-value, or consumption-value.
The value in use of goods, is greater in proportion as
the number of wants they are calculated to satisfy are more general
and more urgent, and in proportion as they are gratified
by them more fully, surely, durably, easily and
pleasantly.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Genovesi</hi>, Economia civile
(1869), II, I, 7. <hi rend='italic'>L. Say</hi>, De la Richesse individuelle
et de la Richesse publique (1827), 29, estimates the value of goods
according to the degree of discomfort attendant on the privation of them.</note>
Hence, it is seldom possible to find an accurate mathematical
expression of the relation which exists between the value in
use of different goods.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Friedländer</hi> has,
however, made a general attempt in this direction.
Theorie des Werthes (Dorpat, 1852). But says <hi rend='italic'>Th. Fix</hi>
(Journal des Economistes, 1844, IX, 12): <q>It is as impossible to establish
a scale of values, as it is to find an exact mathematical and permanent measure
of our wants, passions, desires, tastes and fancies.</q></note>
Thus, it is possible to estimate the
<pb n='060'/><anchor id='Pg060'/>
nutritive power of different kinds of goods, the value of wheat
or of hay for instance, but not the goodness or quality of their
taste, of the attractiveness of their appearance, etc.
</p>

<p>
But, the more men become used to comparing the aggregate
of human wants, and the aggregate of the goods which minister
to the satisfaction of these wants, as if they were two great
wholes, gradually shading each into the other, the more does
the value in use of the different kinds of goods assume, for
purposes of social rating or estimation, a fungible character.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, Geld und Credit, 1873, I, 126 ff. The very respectable
attempt made by <hi rend='italic'>A. Samter</hi>, Sociallehre (1875), with the idea
society-value (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Gesellschaftswerth</foreign>)
covers too nearly the idea of value in exchange. Further
research will here have to be made, with the idea of <q>impotent need,</q>
inasmuch as, from a high ethical, national-dietetical point of view, the question
is asked whether, to what extent, and how, <q>impotent need</q> may be
made a potent one.</note>
If a new kind of goods be produced or discovered, which satisfies
the same wants in a more complete manner than another,
the latter, although it has suffered no change, generally
loses in the value put upon it, especially if the new goods can
be produced in any desired quantity. An instance of this is
the change effected in the value of the dyers weed, woad, by
the introduction of indigo.
</p>

<p>
Things present in quantities greater than the amount
necessary to supply the want they satisfy, preserve their full
value in use, to the limit of that want, after which they are
simply an element of possible future value, dependent on an
increase of the want; but they have no value for present
use.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Friedländer</hi>, loc. cit, 50. If
too many copies of the very best book be published, there is a certainty
that a number of them will remain little better than waste paper.</note>
</p>

<p>
The economic valuation of goods, however, is by no
means exhausted, so far as the isolated individual housekeeper
is concerned, by the mere establishing of its value in
use. As the systematic effort of every rational individual in
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
his household management is directed towards the obtaining,
by a minimum of sacrifice of pleasure and energy, a maximum
satisfaction of his wants, even an Adam or a Crusoe is,
in his economy, compelled to estimate not only what the goods
to be acquired accomplish (value in use) but also what they
will cost&mdash;cost-value. Even the most indispensable kind of
goods, for instance atmospheric air, is considered to have no
value, when it can be obtained in sufficient quantity, without
any sacrifice whatever.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
System, II, aufl., 55. See also his Kapitalismus und Socialismus,
1870, 31, 35, 43.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section V. Value.&mdash;Value In Exchange.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section V.'/>
<anchor id="Section_5"/>
<head type='sub'>Section V.</head>
<head>Value.&mdash;Value In Exchange.</head>

<p>
The value in exchange of goods, or the quality which makes
them exchangeable against other goods, is based on a combination
of their value in use with their cost-value, such as men
in their intercourse with one another will make.<note place='foot'>Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Kleinwächter</hi> (Hildebrand's Jahrbücher für N. Oek. und Statistik,
1867, II, 318), defines value in exchange=value in use + costliness. According
to Schäffle, it is <q>a covert comparison between the cost-value and
the value in use of the two kinds of goods to be exchanged.</q> (Kapitalismus
und Socialismus, 35.)</note> Without
value in use, value in exchange<note place='foot'>An intermediate dealer can, so
far as he is himself concerned, attribute value in exchange to goods only to the
extent that they have use for the last person who has acquired them. Hence,
<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi> calls <emph>value in use</emph> immediate,
and <emph>value in exchange</emph>, mediate value. As the English are always wont to
express the immediate in words of Germanic origin, and the mediate in words
borrowed from the Latin, <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi> calls value in use <q>worth,</q>
and value in exchange, simply <q>value.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>K. Marx</hi>,
Das Kapital. Kritik der politischen Œkonomie, 1867, I, 2.)</note> is unthinkable.
</p>

<p>
But there are many, and even indispensable goods which
are not at all susceptible of being exchanged; for instance,
the light and heat of the sun, the open sea etc.<note place='foot'>It is,
of course, otherwise when, for instance, a beautiful sea view, or a
desirable position as regards air and sunshine, is connected with a piece of
land.</note> Other goods,
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
although capable of being exchanged, have no value in exchange,
because they exist in superabundance, and may be
obtained by everyone, without trouble and without reward;
for instance, drinking-water in most places, ice in winter, and
wood in the primeval forest.<note place='foot'>In Ravenna a cistern had greater
value in exchange than a vineyard: <hi rend='italic'>Martial</hi>, III, 56. In
Paris, too, drinking water, which is transported only with
considerable trouble, costs 1-1/3 thalers per cubic meter. We may also mention
snow and ice in summer, which last sells in the capitals of southern
Europe at 0.34, silber groschens per pound. According to <hi rend='italic'>Carey</hi>,
<q>utility</q> is the measure of man's power over nature, <q>value,</q> the
measure of nature's power over man. He very inaccurately adds, that both are always
in an opposite direction. (Principles of Social Science, 1861, VI, ch. 9.)</note>
Moreover, the idea of such
<q>free goods</q> is in great part relative. The water of a river
may, for drinking purposes, be <q>free</q> goods, and yet, for purposes
of irrigation, have great value in exchange. (<hi rend='italic'>John
Stuart Mill</hi>).
</p>

<p>
But, goods, to obtain value in exchange, must, in addition to
their value in use, a value which must be recognized<note place='foot'>Hence
<hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi> calls value in use, individual value, and value in
exchange, social value. The Germans call the value of goods whose value in
use is recognized by only one person,
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Affectionswerth</foreign>,
(affection-value) a value which influences its value in exchange only when the
individual who holds it in high esteem is not himself the possessor of the goods. An
instance of this latter is a piece of paper covered with notes, intelligible only to the
maker of them.</note> by
a certain number of persons, at least, have the capacity of becoming
the exclusive property of some one individual, and
therefore of being alienated or transferred; and this alienation
or transfer must be desired because of the difficulty to become
possessed of them in any other way.<note place='foot'>The very important difference
between value in use and value in exchange was recognized oven by Aristotle.
<hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi> Pol. I, 9. <hi rend='italic'>Hutchinson</hi>,
System of Moral Philosophy (1755), II, 53 ff. The Physiocrates speak very
frequently of <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>valeur usuelle</foreign>
and <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>vénale</foreign>, on which, according
to <hi rend='italic'>Dupont</hi>, Physiocratie, CXVIII, the difference between
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>biens</foreign> and
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>richesses</foreign> is based.
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>La valeur d'un septicr de blé,
considéré comme richesse ne consiste que dans son prix.</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, éd. Daire, 300.) <hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>
distinguishes between <q><foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>valeur
estimative</foreign></q> and
<q><foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>échangeable</foreign> or
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>appréciative</foreign>;</q>
the former designating the relation between the amount of energy, physical and mental,
which one is willing to spend in order to obtain the goods, to the sum total of his
energies, physical and mental; the latter the relation between the aggregate like
energy of two persons which they are willing to spend in order to procure
each of the goods to be exchanged, and the sum total of their energies in
general. (Valeurs et Monnaies, p. 87, seq., éd. Daire.) <hi rend='italic'>Ad.
Smith</hi>, in his Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 4, shows that he knew the difference
between value in use and value in exchange; but he afterwards drops the consideration of
the former, altogether. In this respect he has had only too faithful and one-sided
followers among his countrymen, so that <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, Principles, ch.
28, asks what value in exchange can have in common with the capacity of commodities
to serve as food or clothing. (See, however, ch. XIX seq.) Many <q>free
traders</q> would have no objection to interpose, if a people should abandon
the cultivation of wheat, etc., to devote themselves exclusively to the manufacture
of point lace, provided the latter had a greater value in exchange.
The two degrees of the idea of value have been examined with much thoroughness
by <hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi> in his Neue Grundlegung der Staatswirthschaftskunst
(1807), I, 118 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>, Revision der Grundbegriffe (1811 ff.),
I, 31, ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, I; <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>,
Lehrbuch, I, 56, ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Thomas</hi>, Theorie des Verkehrs, I, p.
11; <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, Tübing. Zeitschr. 1855;
<hi rend='italic'>Bastiat's</hi> declaration (Harmonies, p. 171 ff.): that
<q><foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>valeur</foreign></q> (by which
Bastiat means only value in exchange), =
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>le raport de deux services
échangés</foreign>, contains a two-fold error: the ambiguity of the word
<hi rend='italic'>services</hi>, which applies equally to a yielding or affording of
utility, as to useful labor, and the error that the labor necessary to produce a
commodity, and of which the purchaser is relieved, alone determines its value in
exchange. Compare <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi> §§ <ref target="Section_47">47</ref>,
<ref target="Section_107">107</ref>, <ref target="Section_110">110</ref>,
<ref target="Section_115">115</ref> ff., and <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, loc. cit., p.
644 ff.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section VI. Value.&mdash;Alleged Contradiction Between Value
In Use And Value In Exchange.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section VI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section VI.</head>
<head>Value.&mdash;Alleged Contradiction Between Value In
Use And Value In Exchange.</head>

<p>
Recent, and especially socialistic,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Proudhon</hi>,
Système des Contradictions économiques, 1846, ch. 2.</note> writers have alluded to
the great <q>contradiction</q> between value in use and value in
exchange. This contradiction, however, vanishes when the
above idea of economy, and the two sides or aspects, which
economic value presents, are kept steadily in view. It is said,
for instance, that a pound of gold has a much greater value in
exchange than a pound of iron; while the value in use of
iron, is incomparably greater than that of gold. I question
<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>
this latter statement. True it is, that the need of iron is much
more universal and urgent than the need of gold. On the
other hand, a pound of gold yields satisfaction to the want of
that metal, much greater than is yielded by a pound of iron, to
the want of iron. We may speak of a contradiction between
value in use and value in exchange, at the farthest, only in case
the existing quantity of an article in trade, which can be done
without, is not estimated correspondingly lower than the whole
existing supply of a thing which is indispensable. But this is
a case which cannot often occur. When, for instance, wheat is
very dear, as in years of scarcity, people prefer to pay a very
high price for it rather than to dispense, even in part, with its
use; and so of all the necessaries of life. As people progress
in economic culture, they become more expert in adapting the
value in exchange of related goods, not only to their cost-value,
but also to their value in use.<note place='foot'><p>In France, according to
<hi rend='italic'>Cordier</hi> (Mémoire sur l'Agriculture de la Flandre
Française), the wheat harvest yielded, in
</p>
<p>
1817, forty-eight million hectolitres, with a value in exchange of two thousand
and forty-six million francs; in
</p>
<p>
1818, fifty-three million hectolitres, with a value in exchange of one thousand
and four hundred and forty-two million francs; in
</p>
<p>
1819, sixty-four million hectolitres, with a value in exchange of one thousand
and one hundred and seventy million francs.
</p>
<p>
A rise in the value in exchange of wheat, such as was witnessed in 1817,
is synonymous with a decline in the value in exchange of money, and of all
those goods whose money price has not risen. It is no objection to the views
here advocated, that when the necessaries of life are very scarce, the want
of clothing, furniture, articles of luxury etc., is not felt so keenly as at other
times, and that the value in use of these commodities really falls; and
<hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>.</p></note><note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>B. Hildebrand</hi>, N. Œkonomie der Gegenwart und Zukunft,
1848, I, p. 316 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, loc. cit.</note>
</p>

<p>
The lower the state of a nation's economy, the more isolated
men live from one another, the greater is the prominence given
by them to value in use, as compared with value in exchange,
a fact which makes a valuation of resources, which shall be
universally applicable, a more difficult matter.<note place='foot'>The greater
importance attached, in our days, to value in exchange, than
to value in use, is seen especially in the attitude which the buyer, who is possessed
of the more current commodity (money), assumes toward the seller,&mdash;an
attitude not unlike that of a patron towards his client. In the interior of
Africa, the possessor of money, as such, would scarcely look down on the
possessor of the means of subsistence. The South American Indians are
ready to render an amount of service for a little brandy, which it would be
in vain to ask them to perform for ten times its value in gold. (Ausland,
Jan. 15, 1870.) The miser estimates the possibility of being able to procure
for himself, for one dollar, a hundred different articles worth a dollar each, to
be worth one hundred dollars.</note><note place='foot'>When the wants of a
person or of a people change, it is possible for the
value in use of one kind of goods, which had the greater prominence before,
to take the place occupied previously by its value in exchange; and
<hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>. Thus, the youth sells the plaything he used in
childhood; the man, the educational apparatus of his earlier years; the old man, the
implements that enabled him to acquire wealth, and which he can no longer use except
with great effort. (<hi rend='italic'>Menger</hi>, Grundsätze, I, 220
ff.)</note><note place='foot'><p><hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi> (Lehrbuch, I, § 61 ff.)
distinguishes between the concrete or quantitative
value which a certain kind of goods may have for a certain person,
under certain circumstances, and the abstract or species-value which a whole
class of commodities may have for men in general.
</p>
<p>
But <hi rend='italic'>F. J. Neumann</hi>, (Tübinger Zeitschrift, 1872, p. 288 ff.)
objects, that even the abstract value of a commodity always suggests the relation of a
definite number of concrete men to a definite quantity of goods; else, by the
expression, value of goods, is to be understood not what it is generally meant
to signify, but only the capacity to satisfy a single want.</p></note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section VII. Resources Or Means (Vermögen).'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section VII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section VII.</head>
<head>Resources Or Means (Vermögen).</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Resources</hi>, or <hi rend='italic'>means</hi>, in the sense in which
we here use the term, are the aggregate of economic goods owned by a physical
or legal person, after deduction is made of the person's
debts, and all valuable and rightful claims have been
added.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Ueber die Natur des
Nationaleinkommens (1824, 1825), 5, defines
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Vermögen</foreign>) thus: a source of
income, permanent in its nature, and
capable of being transmitted, the possessor of which does not need to work,
on its account. Hence he does not approve of the expression <q>the people's
resources</q>
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Volksvermögen</foreign>).</note>
Hence, there are private resources, corporative resources,
municipal resources, etc., state resources, national resources
and the world's resources. In estimating the resources of a
whole people, it is, of course, necessary to make deduction of
the debts due by the individual members of the nation to their
fellow countrymen.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section VIII. Valuation Of Resources.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section VIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_8"/>
<head type='sub'>Section VIII.</head>
<head>Valuation Of Resources.</head>

<p>
It has often been made a question, whether the valuation of
resources should be based on the value in use, or the value in exchange
of their constituent parts.<note place='foot'>See especially
<hi rend='italic'>Lord Lauderdale</hi>, Inquiry into the Nature and Origin of
Public Wealth, 1804, ch. 2. <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, loc. cit.</note>
The latter has, of course,
no interest, except in so far as we are concerned with the possibility
of obtaining the control of part of the resources, or
means, of another, by the surrender of a part of one's own
goods. In estimating the value of private resources, which
require to be made continually an object of trade, this point is,
of course, of the greatest importance. If certain of their component
elements, lands, for instance, belonging to a <hi rend='italic'>fidei commissum</hi>,
are incapable of entering immediately into the market,
at least the revenue they yield is measured by its value in exchange.
</p>

<p>
It is quite otherwise, even with the resources of a whole
nation. Such resources are, evidently, much more independent,
and have much less need of being exchanged against
their equals, than private resources. The foreign commerce,
of the greatest and most advanced nations, has, hitherto, been
but a small quota of their internal commerce.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Moreau
de Jonnès</hi>, Le Commerce au 19. Siècle (1825) I, 114 ff., says that
the United States imported from abroad 9.6, France 6, and Great Britain
5.8 per cent. of their annual consumption; and exported respectively 10.4,
6.2, 9.8 per cent. of their annual production. The recent free trade tendencies,
and the improvement in the international means of transportation, have certainly
increased the relative importance of foreign commerce. In the kingdom
of Saxony (1853), <hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi> estimates that 10/47 of the whole
production of the country was destined for foreign countries, and that 10/47 of
the consumption was imported.</note> A valuation,
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
therefore, based on value in exchange, however interesting it
might be to enable us to determine how property is shared by
the different classes and persons that compose the nation,
would afford but little information concerning the absolute
amount of the national wealth. This, of course, applies in a
much higher degree to the resources of the whole world.
</p>

<p>
If, now, we were to estimate the resources of an entire
people, or even of the world, by summing up the value in exchange
of their several component parts, many very important
elements would be left out of the account entirely; as for instance,
harbors, navigable streams, numberless relations which
have, indeed, no value in exchange whatever, but which are
of the highest importance, because promotive of the economy
of the nation. The same may be said of made roads of every
description, the politico-economical value of which may be
much greater than the value in exchange of their stock, than
their cost of production etc. The increase of the value in
exchange of any of the branches of the resources of a
physical or legal person contributes towards really enriching
the nation or the world, only in case that the increased
value in exchange is based on an increased utility in quality
or quantity. Should an earthquake suddenly dry up a
number of our springs, and thus give value in exchange to
the drinking water from the remaining ones, we should, indeed,
witness the introduction of a new object into the list of
exchangeable goods; the owners of springs would be able to
command a larger portion of the national resources, but at the
expense of the rest of the population; and the whole country
would have become poorer in goods by the catastrophe. Even
the value in exchange of the national resources would not be
increased; for all other goods, which, hitherto, as compared
with water, had an unlimited capacity for exchange, would
lose just as much of that capacity as water had gained, as
compared with them.<note place='foot'>When the land of a country
becomes dearer, simply on account of the increase
of population, or goods, the quantity of which is susceptible of increase,
because the cost of production has been increased, this cannot be considered
an increase in the wealth of the people, (<hi rend='italic'>v. Mangoldt.</hi>)</note>
On the other hand, if a new mineral
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
spring should be discovered, the great value in use of the
water of which gave it value in exchange, the resources of the
nation would be really increased, not only in point of utility,
but in exchange value; for no other goods, formerly known,
would, in consequence of the discovery, lose in their exchange
power.<note place='foot'>Neither is value in exchange a
quality inherent in goods, but only a relation
between them and other goods. Hence it is absurd to speak of a rise or
fall of all values in exchange. If the goods A lose in capacity to be exchanged
against goods B, goods B of course increase in exchange power as
compared with A, and <hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>. It is necessary to guard
against being misled here by the intervention of money, that is, by the custom universal
among men of employing a definite kind of goods as a medium of exchange
for all others. Yet there are many writers who have been thus misled. Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, Delia Moneta (1750), II, p. 2, who regards the lasting
increase of the prices of all commodities as an infallible sign of national prosperity.
To the same effect is the motto of the Physiocrates: <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>Abondance et cherté c'est opulence</foreign>. In its coarsest
form, in <hi rend='italic'>Saint Chamans</hi>, Nouv. Essai sur la Richesse
des Nations (1824), 456, who would have that which is now the free gift of
nature, to come to us or be produced only as the reward of toil.
<hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, on the other hand, Meditazioni sull. econ. pol. (1771),
ch. V, thinks that the number of buyers in a country should be as small as possible, and
that of sellers as great as possible, in order that thus prices might be low; (as if
every buyer was not, <hi rend='italic'>eo ipso</hi>, also a seller.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section IX. Wealth.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section IX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_9"/>
<head type='sub'>Section IX.</head>
<head>Wealth.</head>

<p>
The possession of large and also of potentially lasting resources;
objectively, such resources themselves, we call wealth.
But it must be large in a two-fold sense; large as compared with
the rational wants of its possessor, and large, also, as compared
with the resources of other people, especially with the resources
of those in the same condition of life. To be called rich, it
is not enough <q>to have a sufficiency,</q> (the individual side); it
is necessary to have more than
others.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Kaufmann</hi>, Untersuchungen, I,
p. 165 seq. Also, <hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, Meditazioni,
XVII, 2.</note> If all men were possessed
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
of a great deal, but all of an exactly equal amount, each
would be compelled, it may be conjectured, to be his own
chimney-sweep, his own scavenger and <q>boot-black.</q> And
how could anyone, then, be properly called wealthy? This is
the social side of the idea of wealth.<note place='foot'>The
differences characteristic of poverty, indigence, managing to live, fortune and
wealth, cleverly treated by <hi rend='italic'>von Justi</hi>, Staatswirthschaft, I, p.
449, seq. <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch I, § 76, seq., establishes the
following gradation: privation and wretchedness, poverty, indigence, <q>getting on,</q>
comfort, wealth, superfluity. <hi rend='italic'>L. Say</hi> calls those who can
satisfy the wants of luxury rich; well-to-do, those who can command the
comforts of life; and wretched, those who cannot obtain a sufficiency of
the objects of prime necessity. In France, the limits of these situations are
marked by an income of respectively 60,000, 6,000 and 900 francs per family,
so that a family with an income of only 300 francs per year is in a
condition of wretchedness. (Traité de la Richesse, 1827, I ff., 71 ff.)</note>
Hence, a person, with the same resources, might be very wealthy in a provincial town,
while, in the capital, he could enjoy only moderate
comfort.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Palmieri</hi>, Ricchezza nazionale, Introd.
The greater number of the definitions of wealth are rather onesided than false.
<hi rend='italic'>Socrates</hi>, for instance, looks only at the relation existing
between means and their owner's wants. (<hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi> Memor., IV, 2,
37, seq. Œconom. II, 2 ff.). <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, on the other hand, as the
socialists are wont to do, looks to the excess over that possessed by others.
(Legg. V, 742, seq.). <hi rend='italic'>Xenophon's</hi> observations, Hiero, 4, on the
nature of wealth, are many-sided and beautiful. <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>
distinguishes between natural and artificial wealth: πλῆθος ὀργάνων οἰκονομακῶν καὶ
πολιτικῶν&mdash;πλῆθος νομίσματος. (Polit, I, 3, 9, 16.) Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, Parad. VI. The dominant idea of the so-called Mercantile
System is thus expressed in a Saxon pamphlet of 1530 (Müntzbelangende Antwort, etc.):
<q>Money is the real watchword; where there is much money, there is wealth, it is
clear.</q> Compare <hi rend='italic'>Luther</hi>, Werke, Irmisch edition, XXII, p. 200
seq. See some excellent remarks in opposition hereto, in the Saxon pamphlet, Gemeyne
Stimmen von der Müntz, 1530. <hi rend='italic'>Schröder</hi>, Fürstliche
Schatz-und Rentkammer, 1686, ch XXIX. <q>A country grows rich in proportion as it draws
gold or money, either from the earth or from other countries; poor, in proportion as
money leaves it. The wealth of a country must be estimated by the quantity
of gold and silver in it.</q> See a very passionate argument against this view in
<hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>, Dissertation sur la Nature des Richesses, written
sometime between 1697 and 1714. <hi rend='italic'>Berkeley</hi>, Querist (1735), Nos.
562, 542. Among Englishmen, the correct view was prevalent much earlier, especially
among the founders of the American colonial empire. See <hi rend='italic'>Hachluyt</hi>,
Voyages (1600) III, 22 ff. 45 ff. 152 ff. 165 ff. 182 ff. 266 ff; but especially the work
<q>Virginia's Verger</q> in <q>Purchas Pilgrims</q> (1625), IV, p. 809 ff. However,
several Spaniards were led by hard experience to adopt a view opposed to the Midas-view
(compare <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>, Polit. I, ch. 3, 16), by which the first
American explorers were carried away: <hi rend='italic'>Garcilasso de la Vega</hi>
(1609), Comment. reales II, ch. 6; <hi rend='italic'>Saavedra Faxardo</hi>, Idea
Principis christiani (1640) Symb. 69: <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>potissimæ divitiæ ac opes terræ fructus sunt, nec ditiores in
regnis fodinæ, quam agricultura; plus emolumenti, acclivia montis Vesuvii latera
adverunt, quam Potosus mons</foreign>. Contemporary with those Englishmen, was the
Italian, <hi rend='italic'>Giov. Botero</hi>, who called attention to the fact, that
France and Italy were the countries of Europe richest in gold, although they possessed no
mines of the precious metal themselves: Della Ragion di Stato (1591) p. 88 ff. Also
<hi rend='italic'>Sully</hi>, who called agriculture and cattle-breeding the breasts of
the state, the real mines and pearls of Peru. (Economies royales I, ch. 81. See however,
II, p. 381). <hi rend='italic'>Montchrêtien</hi>, Traité d'Économie politique (1615) 81,
172 seq. According to <hi rend='italic'>Sir D. North's</hi> Discourses upon Trade, 1691,
wealth is synonymous with freedom from want, and the ability to procure many comforts,
while <hi rend='italic'>Temple</hi> (ob. 1700, Works I, 140 seq.) looks entirely at the
subjective side of wealth. <hi rend='italic'>Pollexfen</hi>, <q>England and East India
inconsistent in their Manufactures</q> (1697), considers gold and silver as the only
real wealth. To this definition Davenant (ob. 1714), opposes another. Wealth, according
to him, is whatever places prince or people in a condition of superabundance, peace and
security. See his Works, I, p. 381 seq. He even reckons intellectual powers, alliances
etc., among the national wealth. Compare <hi rend='italic'>W. Roscher</hi>, Zur
Geschichte der englischen Volkswirthschaftslehre 1851, in the acts of the royal Saxon
Academy of Sciences, vol. III. <hi rend='italic'>Vauban</hi> (Dime royale 1707), Daire's
edition, says: <q>The real wealth of a people consists in an abundance of those things,
the use of which is so necessary to sustain the life of man, that they cannot at all be
dispensed with.</q> By the wealth of a people <hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, Della
Moneta II, c. 2, understands the aggregate of all lands, houses, movable property,
money, etc. which belong to them, but, that the chief element of wealth, and the
condition precedent of all others, is men themselves. Hence, the process of the
impoverishment of a people in their decline, takes the following course: money first
emigrates, next, population diminishes, afterwards, the houses fall in ruin, finally,
the land itself becomes a waste. According to <hi rend='italic'>Broggia</hi>, wealth is
<foreign lang='it' rend='font-style: italic'>un avanzo osia valore di tutto cio che
avanza al proprio consumo e bisogno</foreign>, Delle Monete, 1743, IV, 307, 314; Cust.
<hi rend='italic'>Palmieri</hi> (ob. 1794), also says: <foreign lang='it'
rend='font-style: italic'>il superfluo constituisce la richezza</foreign>. (Publica
Felicità.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Sur la Formation et Distribution
des Richesses 1771, § 90, the wealth of a nation consists in the net proceeds of landed
property capitalized at the ordinary price of land, and then of the aggregate of all
the movable property of the country. <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geluumlauf III, § 27,
considers a certain duration of the produce or revenue as an essential element in
the idea of wealth. <hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>, Inquiry, ch. II, distinguishes
national wealth and private wealth; the former embracing all that man covets as
agreeable or desirable; while it is one of the marks of the latter, that there
should be no general superfluity of it on hand. Several modern English
economists call wealth only that, the production of which cost human
labor. Thus, <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Definitions (1827) p. 234.
<hi rend='italic'>Torrens</hi>, Production of Wealth, 1821, ch. I. When
<hi rend='italic'>Rossi</hi>, Cours d'Economie politique, 1835, L. 2, says:
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>tout chose propre à satisfaire aux besoins
de l'homme est richesse</foreign>, he demonstrates how the frequent inaccuracy of the
French language stands in the way of a close analysis. The greater number of more recent
definitions are true of resources rather than of wealth. <hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>
distinguishes between <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>richesse
effective</foreign> and <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>relative</foreign>,
the former being based on <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>utilité</foreign>,
the latter on <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>valeur</foreign>.
(Harmonies, ch. 6.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='070'/><anchor id='Pg070'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section X. Wealth.&mdash;Signs Of National Wealth.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section X.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section X.</head>
<head>Wealth.&mdash;Signs Of National Wealth.</head>

<p>
We should have a very imperfect idea of the wealth of a
people (§ <ref target="Section_8">8</ref>) if we should estimate it at the value in
exchange
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
of the sum<note place='foot'>The national wealth of Athens, at the time of the hundredth
Olympiad, is estimated by <hi rend='italic'>Böckh</hi> (Staatshaushalt der Athen, I, p.
636, 2d ed.) to have been from thirty to forty thousand talents, besides the non-taxable
property of the state. That of Great Britain is estimated at about 8,000 million pounds
sterling. (Athenæum 5 March, 1853.) <hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi> estimated that of
France at, at least, 116 milliards of francs, with an annual increase of 1-½ milliards,
(L'or et l'Argent, 1870. Enquête, 59.) <hi rend='italic'>David A. Wells</hi> estimated
that of the United States, in 1860, slaves not included, at 14,183 million dollars, or
$451.20 per capita, whereas in England, the per capita wealth was about $1,000.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahib., 1870, I, 431.) The national wealth of the
kingdom of Saxony is equal to 600 million thalers immovable, and 600 million movable,
property. (<hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi>, Statist. Zeitschr. August, 1856). That of
Würtemberg=2,710 million florins, of which 700 millions represent movable goods, and 100
million, claims on foreign countries. (Statistisches Handbuch, 1863.) Of
course all these estimates are very inexact.</note>-total of the component parts of
the national resources.
By the following signs, however, an approximative
notion of the value in use of the resources of a nation may be
obtained:
</p>

<p>
A. When, even the lower classes, who compose everywhere
the greatest portion of the people, are comfortable, in a condition
worthy of human beings. Thus, C. Dupin is surprised
at the great quantities of meat, butter, cheese and tea entered
on the accounts of the poor-houses in England, and the great
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
care taken to have these of the best quality.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ch.
Dupin</hi>, Forces productives, p. 82. See <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § 230.</note>
A good symptom of such a state of things is a high average duration of
human life, especially when there is a relatively large number
of births. (§ 246.)
</p>

<p>
B. When a considerable outlay, devoted to the satisfaction
of the more refined wants, is voluntarily made, and by
those only possessed of a proper economic sense. Thus, in
England, the various mission, bible, and tract societies had,
in 1841, an aggregate income of £630,000. The expeditions
in search of Franklin cost over a million pounds sterling. The
state outlay also belongs to this category, provided, that taxes
are collected and loans obtained, without any noticeable oppression.
The sum of 20,000,000 pounds sterling, voted, in
1833, by the British Parliament for the abolition of slavery, is
one of the happiest signs of the national wealth of England.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Meidinger</hi>, Das britische Reich in Europa, pp. 79, 238, 261.</note>
</p>

<p>
C. A large number of valuable buildings, and permanent
improvements; for instance, roads of every description, works
for purposes of irrigation and drainage. Thus, in London,
from September, 1843, to September, 1845, there were constructed
squares and streets with an aggregate length of 11.1
geographical miles. The number of newly built houses in
London, between 1843 and 1847, was nearly 27,000. And so,
in England and Wales there are 492 geographical miles of
navigable canals, while their navigable rivers are estimated to
have a length of only 449 miles. The number of miles of
railroad, in the British Empire, in 1865, was 2,897 geographical
miles, and they cost 459 million of pounds; in 1870, it was
3,270 geographical miles, at an aggregate cost of 650 millions
sterling.
</p>

<p>
D. The frequent occurrence of heavy commercial payments,
which finds expression especially in the magnitude and costliness
of the most usual medium of exchange. Thus, all payments
are made in England in paper (for sums of at least five
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
pounds sterling) or in gold coin. Silver is used only as small
change, like copper in most other countries. (<hi rend='italic'>Infra</hi>, §
<ref target="Section_118">118</ref>,
seq.)<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Davenant</hi> considers an increase in the
number of houses, ships and stocks of goods, as the surest sign of an increase in the
national wealth; and on the other hand, a high rate of interest, a low price of land,
small wages, a decrease of population, and an increase of uncultivated land, as the signs
of national impoverishment. (Works, I, pp. 354, seq. II, p. 283.) <hi rend='italic'>Sir
M. Decker</hi>, Essay on the Causes of Decline of Foreign Trade (1744), 3, gives as the
signs of impoverishment, the following: a wretched condition of the poor
and of manufactures, a low price of wool, long credit to retail dealers, frequent
cases of bankruptcy, exportation of the metals, unfavorable exchange,
few new coins, many cases of unpaid rent of leased land, and high poor rates.</note>
</p>

<p>
E. Frequent loans to foreign nations. Hence, Storch divides
all countries into borrowing or poor countries, loaning or rich
countries, and independent countries which hold a middle
place between the two former.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch,
I, 45. Compare <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § 187.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XI. Of Economy (Husbandry).'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XI.</head>
<head>Of Economy (Husbandry).</head>

<p>
All normal economy<note place='foot'>On the difference between human and animal economy,
see <hi rend='italic'>Schön</hi>, Neue Untersuchungen der N. Œkonomie, (1835), 4.</note>
(husbandry) aims at securing a maximum of personal advantage with a minimum of cost or
outlay.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, System, III, Aufl.
I, 2, 28.</note> And there are always two intellectual incentives at the
foundation of this economy. There is, first, self-interest, the
positive manifestation of which is the effort to acquire as much
of the world's goods as possible, and the negative expression
of which, the effort to lose as little of them as
possible&mdash;acquisitiveness&mdash;saving. Self-interest, losing its moral, and
assuming a guilty, character, degenerates into egotism; acquisitiveness,
into covetousness; and the disposition to save, into
avarice&mdash;the <hi rend='italic'>solipsismus</hi> of Kant. The incentive to ameliorate
one's condition is common to all men, no matter how varied
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
the form or different the intensity of its manifestation. It
guides us all from the cradle to the grave. It may be restricted
within certain limits, but never entirely extinguished.
It is, in the domain of economy, what the instinct of self-preservation
is to our physical existence, a powerful principle of
creation, preservation and of renewed life (I. Thessal., 4, 11,
seq.).<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, in his Polit. Œkonomie vom
geschichtl. Standpunkte, 1853, p. 160 ff., shows, very happily, how the love of one's
self,&mdash;which must, indeed, be distinguished from self-seeking&mdash;is not in
conflict with the love of one's neighbor; but that, in healthy natures, it is found
allied with a feeling of equity, and of the common good. See, also, <hi rend='italic'>F.
Fuoco</hi>, Saggi economici, Pisa, 1825, Nr. 7. <hi rend='italic'>Schutz</hi>, Das
sittliche Element in der Volswirthschaft: Tübinger Zeitschrift für Staatswissensch.
1844, p. 132, ff.</note> Then there is the incentive of the demand of God's
voice within us, the voice of conscience, whether we call it, in
philosophic outline <q>the adumbration of the ideas of equity,
right, benevolence, of perfection and inner freedom,</q> or, framing
our lives in accordance with them, the striving after the
Kingdom of God.<note place='foot'><q>That they should seek the Lord if haply they might
feel after him.</q> (Acts, 17, 27. Compare Matthew, 6:33, also I. Timothy, 5:8.)
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Müller</hi> in his Nothwendigkeit einer theolog. Grundlage, 49
seq., is a strong advocate of all this, but a rather narrow one. The farmer, he says,
should first work for the love of God, then for the fruit, that is, for the gross
product, and lastly for the net product. His work is a trust.
<hi rend='italic'>Müller</hi> considers the business relations of men, as they exist at
present, as <q>the comfortless mutual slavery of all.</q> (Nothwendigkeit einer
theolog. Grundlage, 49 ff.) The economist, <hi rend='italic'>Ch. Perin</hi>, who writes
from the Catholic politico-economical standpoint, substitutes for conscience,
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>renoncement</foreign>, as the force
antagonistic to <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>intérêt</foreign>, an
expression inappropriate, because merely negative, although in perfect harmony with the
ascetic religiousness of the middle ages. (De la Richesse dans les Sociétiés
chrêtiennes, 1861, II vol., passim) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>Gelzer's</hi> Protestant. Monatsblättern, Jan. 1863.
<hi rend='italic'>Puchta</hi>, Institutionen, I, f. 8, opposes to individualism&mdash;or
the impulse to distinguish ourselves from others, and which, when uncontrolled, leads to
egotism, pride and hate&mdash;love and right, which are controlling powers over the
former.</note> It matters not, how much the image of
God may have been disfigured in most men, there is no one
in whom the longing for it has so far disappeared as to leave
no trace behind. This puts bounds to our self-interest, and
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
transmutes it into an earthly means to enable us to approximate
to an eternal ideal.
</p>

<p>
As, in the structure of the world, the apparently opposing
tendencies of the centrifugal and centripetal forces produce
the harmony of the spheres, so, in the social life of man, self-interest
and conscience produce in him the feeling for the common
good.<note place='foot'>Even the ancients conceived Eros as a world-building principle.
According to <hi rend='italic'>Schön's</hi> expression, loc. cit., which it is not
difficult to misconstrue, the feeling of the common interest manifests itself, both as
law and force. And, in reality, it is necessary that, in order not to permit the drowsy
conscience to fall too far behind self-interest, which is always awake, it should
create lasting institutions and regulations above and beyond the caprice of
the individual or of the moment; for instance, in the family, marriage, education
etc.</note> This sentiment of the common interest is the
foundation on which rise in successive gradation, the life of
the family, of the community, of the nation and of humanity,
the last of which should be coincident with the life of the
Church. It, alone, can realize the kingdom of heaven on earth.
Through this sentiment alone can religion be made active and
moral. Only through it, can self-interest be made really sure
and always to the purpose. Even the most calculating mind
must acknowledge, that numberless institutions, relations etc.,
are useful and even necessary to many individuals, which can
be established or maintained only from a sense of the general
welfare, for the reason that no one individual could make the
sacrifice required to establish or maintain them. And so, since
commerce has wrought the interests of all men into one great
piece of net-work, the best means of obtaining wherewith to
satisfy our own wants is to help others satisfy theirs. Self-interest
causes every one to choose the course in life in which
he shall meet with the least competition and the most abundant
patronage; in other words, that which answers to the most
pressing and least satisfied want of the community. As a rule,
the physician who cures the greatest number of patients with
the greatest skill, and the manufacturer who produces the
best goods cheapest, will grow to be the richest. It is, moreover,
easy to see that, according as the circle of common interests
grows smaller, it approximates to self-interest; and
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
to <q>the Kingdom of God</q><note place='foot'>The more private interest ceases to be
momentary, and becomes life-long and even hereditary, the better does it harmonize with
the feeling of the common interest.</note> as it grows larger. And yet, all
these circles respectively condition one another. Cosmopolitanism
or church-zeal, without love of country; patriotism,
without fidelity to the community in which one lives, or love
of one's family, are more than suspicious. The reverse is
also true. This is a chief connecting link between the great
apparent opposites.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Perin</hi> says (1,
93), that the conflict of interest is reconciled in the seeking
for the attainment of the supreme good, that is God, <q>who gives himself to
all in equal measure, and yet always remains the same, and out of whose fulness
all may draw, and yet no one's share grows less.</q> But the same is true
of all ideal goods, and of every form of the feeling for the common interest,
the highest of which is, indeed, religiousness.</note><note place='foot'>According
to <hi rend='italic'>Kant</hi>, Anthropologie, p. 239, the desire of comfort and
well-being, and the inclination to virtue, when the former is properly restrained
by the latter, produce the highest degree of moral, united to the
highest degree of physical, good. It is well known, that during the middle
ages, in all countries except Italy and, even up to the seventeenth century,
the moral sciences were under a one-sided theological influence, whose ascetic
condemnation of self-interest may have been well enough during a
period of violence. By virtue of a very natural reaction, and as a protest of
individualism against the constraint of absolute monarchy, the materialists
of the eighteenth century endeavored to discover, even in the most exalted
phenomena of human society, only the expression of an enlightened self-interest.
See <hi rend='italic'>Mandeville's</hi> Fable of the Bees, or private Vices
public Virtues (1723), but especially, <hi rend='italic'>Helvétius</hi>, De
l'Esprit (1758). <hi rend='italic'>Voltaire</hi> says, that, in all the
celebrated maxims of <hi rend='italic'>De Rochefoucauld</hi> (1665) there is but one
truth contained, <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>que l'amour propre est
le mobile de toutes nos actions</foreign>. (But see, per contra,
<hi rend='italic'>Pufendorf</hi>, Jus Naturæ et Gentium, 1672, II, 3, 15.) This tendency
was opposed, especially by the English, who could not be blind to the
influence exerted in public life by the feeling for the common good.
<hi rend='italic'>David Hume</hi>, Treatise on Human Nature (1739), III, 54,
is of opinion that the interests of others are, on the whole, in the case of
nearly every man stronger than even his own self interest.
<hi rend='italic'>Hutcheson</hi>, System of Moral Philosophy (1755), speaks of
the innate principle of benevolence. Man is not a perfect whole; a part belongs
to his own person, part to his family, part to the nation, part even to all
humanity. <hi rend='italic'>Burke</hi>, Inquiry into the Origin of our Ideas
of the Sublime and Beautiful (1756), distinguishes two fundamental principles
of action, that of self-preservation and that of society. On the former is
based the sense of the sublime; on the latter, of the beautiful. According
to <hi rend='italic'>Ferguson</hi>, History of Civil Society, (1767), I, 3, 4,
the <q>sense of union</q> is frequently strongest where the advantage drawn from
the connection is smallest; for instance, it is weakest in highly cultured commercial
countries. <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, Theory of Moral Sentiments (1768),
has been as one-sided in reducing everything to <q>sympathy,</q> as he has been in his
Wealth of Nations in reducing everything to <q>self-interest;</q> but not without
the consciousness, that to explain the reality, it is necessary to take both
into consideration (<hi rend='italic'>Buckle</hi>). It would, indeed, be just as
preposterous to base economy on self-interest alone, as to base marriage merely on
the sexual appetite. Recently, <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatswirthschaftliche
Untersuchungen, 1st ed., part 1st, discovers in self-interest, and in the feeling for
the common good, the two springs of all economy. He would even base the so-called
theoretic Political Economy, on the study of self-interest, its practice in that
of the common good. <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours d'Economie politique,
1844, II, 412 ff., understands something very like this by the contrast between liberty
and centralization. The <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>antagonisme</foreign> and <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>association</foreign> of <hi rend='italic'>Bazard</hi>,
Exposition de la Doctrine de Saint Simon (1829), p. 144 ff. Closer investigation will
show, however, that self-interest, which must not be confounded with egotism,
and the common interest, are neither coördinate nor exhaustive opposites.
Compare the beautiful contrast drawn by <hi rend='italic'>Goethe</hi> (Pocket
edition of 1833, vol. 46, 97), between <q>Pietät</q> and <q>Egoisterei.</q></note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XII. Economy.&mdash;Grades Of Economy.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_12"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XII.</head>
<head>Economy.&mdash;Grades Of Economy.</head>

<p>
Thanks to this feeling for the common weal, the eternal and
destructive war&mdash;the <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>bellum omnium
contra omnes</foreign>&mdash;which an
unscrupulous self-interest would not fail to generate among
men engaged in the isolated prosecution of their own economic
interests, ceases in the higher, well-ordered
organization<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Paul</hi>, I. Corinth. 12, gives the
most beautiful model description of a social organism. Compare, however, the fable of
Menenius Agrippa in <hi rend='italic'>Livy</hi>, II, 32.</note> of
society. On it are based the various forms of economy in
common: family-economy, corporation or association-economy,
<pb n='078'/><anchor id='Pg078'/>
municipal economy, and national economy.<note place='foot'>Excellent beginnings
of a general theory of economies in common in <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
N. Œkonomie, II, Aufl., 62 ff., 331 ff.</note> And these forms
of economy in common are so essentially the condition and
complement of individual economy, that the latter, without
them, could either not be maintained at all, or, at least, only in
the very lowest stage of civilization.
</p>

<p>
Although the higher science of Political Economy has,
nearly always, been conceived<note place='foot'>The French and English, with
their strong political bias, use the expressions respectively
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>economie politique</foreign> and
Political Economy. In Germany, where the terms the people
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Volk</foreign>) and the state
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Staat</foreign>) are much less nearly
coextensive, the words <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Volkswirthschaft</foreign> and <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Nationalökonomie</foreign> are preferred. But even
<hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, who first gave currency to the term
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Volkswirthschaft</foreign>
(Grundlegung, I, 14), called attention to the peculiarity <q>that the term economy
suggests that there is one who economizes and guides, an economist in
chief, and that such a one is, even according to the most correct opinion,
wanting in the public economy of a people.</q></note> as treating of the aggregate
national activity of a people, there have been many, recently,
who consider Political Economy as no real whole, but only as
a mere abstraction. This is true, especially of many unconditional
free-trade theorizers, partly from a repugnance toward
the governmental guardianship of private businesses or economy.
It is true, also, of certain philosophers who consider
the idea, <q>the people,</q> as merely nominal.<note place='foot'><p>According to
<hi rend='italic'>Th. Cooper</hi>, Lectures on the Elements of Political Economy,
(1726), 1, 15 ff. 117, the wealth of society is nothing but the aggregate wealth
of all the individuals that compose it. Each individual looks out best for his
own interests, and, hence, that nation must be the richest, in which each individual
is most completely left to himself. (If this were so, savage nations
would be the richest!) <hi rend='italic'>Cooper</hi> goes so far as to disapprove of
the protection afforded to commerce on the high seas by a national navy; no naval war is
worth what it costs, and merchants should protect themselves. He says, too,
that the word <q>nation</q> is an invention of the grammarians, made to save
the trouble of circumlocution, a nonentity! <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> is, as
might be expected, far removed from such absurdities. (Compare Wealth of Nations, IV,
ch. 2, and the end of the fourth book.) But, even he is of opinion that men,
in the study of their own advantage are led <q>naturally, or rather necessarily</q>
(IV, ch. 2), to the employment which is most useful to society. But here
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> overlooks the fact, that every individual nation
strives after earthly immortality, and is, in consequence, frequently compelled to make
immediate sacrifices for the sake of a distant future, a thing which can never be
to the private interest of the mortal individuals who compose it. And thus,
<hi rend='italic'>D. North</hi>, Discourses upon Trade (1691), 13 seq., says, that in
commercial matters, different nations stand in precisely the same relation to the whole
world, that individual cities do to the kingdom, and individual families to
the city. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>, Factum de la France, ch. 10,
327, Daire's edition. <hi rend='italic'>Benjamin Franklin</hi> (ob. 1790), Political
Papers, § 4. And <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité d'Economie politique (1802)
I, 15: every nation is, in relation to neighboring nations, in the situation of a
province in relation to neighboring provinces. Unfortunately, such doctrine is only too
palpably refuted by every war! <hi rend='italic'>J. Bentham's</hi> saying:
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Les intérêts individuels sont les seuls
intérêts réels</foreign> (Traité de Législation, I, 229). <hi rend='italic'>Infra</hi>
§ <ref target="Section_98">98</ref>.
</p>
<p>
Among those who, in antiquity, most energetically maintained that the
idea of national economy is not a merely nominal one, is <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>
(De Republ., IV, 420, I, 462); more recently, <hi rend='italic'>Fichte</hi> (Der
geschlossene Handelstaat, 1800), although, in general, the socialists attach as little
importance to nationality as their most decided opponents. Adam Müller is a writer
who deserves recognition for his advocacy of national economy, and of the state as a
whole, paramount to individuals, and even generations. He gives war the credit of
causing the scientific knowledge of the state to cast deeper roots, and of enlightening
individuals in the most forcible way, that they are parts of one
great whole. (Elemente der Staatskunst, 1809, I, 7, 113). He calls public economy,
as a whole, the product of all products. What, he inquires, is the use of
all wealth, if it does not guarantee itself? And this, it can do, only through
the organization of the whole people, that is, through the nation (I, 202).
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith's</hi> theory of labor would be correct if it considered
the entire national life of a people itself as one huge piece of labor. (II, 265). And
so, Müller directs his polemics against Adam Smith's premise of a merely mercantile
world-market. (II, 290). Similarly, the protective tariff theoreticians,
<hi rend='italic'>Ganieh</hi>, Théorie de l'Economie politique (1822), II, 198 ff.
and <hi rend='italic'>Fr. List</hi>, Nationales System der politischen Oek. (1842), I,
240 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Colton</hi>, Political Economy of the United States, 1853.
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, Nouveaux Principes (1819), I, 197, ridicules the
opinion which resolves the public interest into merely private interests: It is A's
interest to rob B; B, the weaker, is equally interested to let himself be robbed,
that he may fare no worse. But the state&mdash;?!</p></note> There are, however,
<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>
two things necessary to warrant us to call a thing made
up of a number of parts, one real whole: the parts and the
whole must have a reciprocal action upon one another, and the
whole, as such, must have a demonstrable action of its own.
(<hi rend='italic'>Drobisch.</hi>) In this sense, <q>the people</q> is, unquestionably, a
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
reality, and not alone the individuals who constitute the <q>people.</q>
Besides, it is truly said that all husbandry or economy
supposes a will (<q>systematized activity</q> etc., <hi rend='italic'>supra</hi>, §
<ref target="Section_2">2</ref>).
Such a will is ascribed to individuals, to legal persons, to the
state, but not, however, to <q>the people,</q> as a whole. But this
will need not be an entirely conscious one, as is plain from the
case of the less gifted and less cultured individuals engaged in
household economy. The systemization in the public economy
of a people finds its clearest expression in economic laws,
and in the institutions of the state. But it finds expression,
also, without the intervention of the state, in the laws established
by use, and by the opinions of jurists or courts, in community
of speech, of customs and tastes etc.: things which
have an important economic meaning, which depend on the
common nature of the land, of race and history, and which
influence the state, at least as much as they are influenced
by it.<note place='foot'>National wars are really no mere operations of the will of the
state! Since 1800, Ireland, and, since 1858, even British India, constitute one state
with England, and yet how different are the economic tendencies of these different
countries of which the individual husbandman or business man must take
cognizance!</note><note place='foot'>One might also deny the reality of a stream,
considered as a whole, since its bed, no one calls a stream, and its watery contents
change every moment. And yet, it is well known to scientific geography that every
stream has its own individual character.</note>
</p>

<p>
The most that can be said, at present, so far as an economy
of mankind, or a world-economy, is concerned, is, that it may
be shown that important preparations have been made for it.
We are approaching more nearly to it by the ways of the
more and more cosmopolitan character of science, the increasing
international coöperation of labor, the improvement in the
means of transportation, growing emigration, the greater love
of peace, and the greater toleration of nations etc.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XIII. Political Economy.&mdash;The Economic
Organism.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XIII.</head>
<head>Political Economy.&mdash;The Economic Organism.</head>

<p>
The idea conveyed by the word <hi rend='italic'>organism</hi>, is doubtless, one
of the most obscure of all ideas; and I am so far from desiring
to explain<note place='foot'>This would be to be guilty of explaining
<hi rend='italic'>ignotum</hi> per <hi rend='italic'>ignotius</hi>. And yet,
there are a great many modern writers who imagine that they have said
something all-sufficient, when they have told us that the state is an organism.
As early a writer as <hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi> (N. Grundlegung, I, 113),
enters his protest against such abuses. The person who would operate with this notion,
should, at least, have read the acute observations, so well calculated to dissipate
preconceived opinions, made by <hi rend='italic'>Lotze</hi>, in his Allgemeine Physiologie
des körperlichen Lebens, 1-165. The organic conception of national life,
the life of a whole people, where the individual organs are free and rational
beings, is evidently a much more difficult one to form than that of the
animal or human body.</note> by that idea, the meaning of public or national
economy, that I would only use the word <hi rend='italic'>organism</hi> as
the shortest and most familiar expression of a number of
problems, which it is the purpose of the following investigation
to solve.
</p>

<p>
There are two points, especially, of importance here. In the
motion of any machine, it is possible to distinguish with the
utmost accuracy, between the cause and the effect of the motion:
the blowing of the wind, for instance, is simply and purely,
the cause of the friction of the mill-stones in a wind-mill,
and is not in the least influenced or conditioned by the latter.
But, in the public economy of every people, patient thought
soon shows the observer, that the most important simultaneous
events or phenomena mutually condition one another. Thus,
a flourishing state of agriculture is impossible without flourishing
industries; but, conversely, the prosperity of the latter
supposes the prosperity of the former, as a condition precedent.
It is as in the human body. The motions of respiration are
produced by the action of the spinal cord; and the spinal
cord, in turn, continues to work only through the blood, that is,
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
by the help of respiration. In all cases like this, we are forced,
when accounting for phenomena, to move about in a circle, unless
we admit the existence of an organic life, of which every
individual fact is only the manifestation.<note place='foot'>I first called
attention, in my work on the life-work and age of <hi rend='italic'>Thucydides</hi>,
to the fact that that great historian always accounts for causes in the following
manner: A. is produced by B., and B. by A. (<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Leben Work
und Zeitalter des Thukydides, 199 ff.; compare especially <hi rend='italic'>Thucyd.</hi>,
I, 2, 7, seq.) Such a circle is not a vicious one. All first class historians have thus
explained historical phenomena. The one-sided deduction of A. from B., and
B. from C., etc., which the so-called pragmatic writers like
<hi rend='italic'>Polybius</hi>, for instance, is the result of overlooking all
reciprocal action. <hi rend='italic'>Scialoja</hi>, Principii (1840), p. 60, makes
a somewhat similar observation for Political Economy.</note><note place='foot'>Whether
we call the unknown and inexplicable ground back of all analysis,
and which our analysis cannot reach, vital force, generic form, spirit of
the nation, or God's thought, is for the present a matter of scientific indifference.
All the more necessary are the self-knowledge and honesty, in general,
which admit the existence of this background, and which do not, by
denying it, deny the connection of the whole, which is, for the most part,
much more important than the analyzed parts. But I must at the same time,
enter my energetic protest against the imputations of heresy made by those
who do not comprehend the sacred duty of science, by never ceasing investigation,
to push farther back the bounds of this inexplicable background.</note>
</p>

<p>
It is, also, undeniable, that human insight into the operation
and utility of a machine must always precede the existence of
the machine itself. This human insight is parent to the plan,
and the plan, in turn, is parent to the machine. The very reverse
of this is true in the case of organisms, those <q>divine
machines</q> as Leibnitz called them. Men had digested food
and reproduced their kind, thousands of years before physiologists
had attained to a true theory of digestion or reproduction.
I do not, indeed, by any means, pretend, that the public
economy of nations is governed by natural necessity, in the
same degree, as for instance, the human body. We shall find,
however, that the minute arbitrary variations usual here and
there in the course of its development, generally compensate
for one another, in accordance with the law of large numbers.
Here, too, we find harmonies, frequently of wonderful beauty,
which existed long before any one dreamt of them; innumerable
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
<hi rend='italic'>natural laws</hi>,<note place='foot'>When
<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand</hi>, for instance, objects to the application of the
expression <q>natural law</q> to the economic actions of man, for the reason that it
conflicts with human freedom and man's capacity for progress (Jahrbücher
der N. Œek. und Statistik., 1863, Heft., I), I cannot agree with him. I use the
expression <q>natural law</q> wherever I observe uniformity, explicable in its
broader connections, and not dependent on human design. That there are
such uniformities there can be no question. I need only mention the philological
law of the so-called <q>permutation of consonants,</q> which individuals
follow when speaking&mdash;certainly not through compulsion,&mdash;and, by means
of which, the progress of the speaking aggregate is made manifest. Or, I
might call attention to the well known fact, that, in populous countries marriages
and crimes, which are for the most part free, are divided among the
different age-classes in a proportion much more uniform, from year to year,
than are deaths, which are not free. I adhere all the more firmly to the expression
<q>natural law,</q> because no one takes offense at or objects to the expression,
<q>nature of the human soul.</q> But to this very nature of the human
soul belong the freedom and responsibility of the individual, as well as the
capacity of the species for progress. Compare <hi rend='italic'>A. Wagner</hi>, on Law
in the Apparently capricious Actions of Man (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Die Gesetzmässigkeit in den scheinbar
willkürlichen menschlichen Handlungen</foreign>, 1864, p. 63 seq.), in which, however,
he only goes so far as to show that law and freedom coexist side by
side as indubitable facts, while the seeming contradiction between the two
remains. <hi rend='italic'>Drobisch's</hi> Moralische Statistik und die menschliche
Willensfreiheit, 1867, is an important contribution to the literature of this
question.</note> whose operation does not depend on their
recognition by individuals, and, over which, only he can obtain
power who has learned to obey them.
(<hi rend='italic'>Bacon</hi>)<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Whately</hi>, in
his fourth lecture (Lectures, 1831), shows in a very clear way,
how London is supplied and provisioned by men with no object in view but
their own personal interest, each of whom is possessed of but a very limited
knowledge of the aggregate wants of its inhabitants, and yet they work into
one another's hands, in the interests of the whole, purely instinctively, and
infinitely better, perhaps, than the operations of the most skillful governmental
commission, organized for the same purpose.</note><note place='foot'>Alphonsus of
Castile, the king astrologer of the thirteenth century, is
reported to have said, that the universe would have been much better constituted,
if the Creator had asked his advice beforehand. Astronomers like
Newton and Gauss have, certainly, judged otherwise.</note><note
place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>MacCulloch</hi> remarks, that there is an
essential difference between the physical
and the moral and political sciences in this, that the principles of the former
apply in all cases, those of the latter, only in the greater number of cases&mdash;a
thought very ably developed by <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, loc. cit.,
<hi rend='italic'>passim</hi>. If, with <hi rend='italic'>Newmarch</hi>,
(London Statistical Journal, 1861, p. 460 seq.), we could grant, that there is no
<q>law,</q> except where it is possible to predict each individual occurrence under
it, there would be no such thing even as the <q>laws</q> of the probability of life.
The word <q>element,</q> also, means something very different in Political Economy
from what it does in chemistry: a combination which might be broken
up, but which that science leaves it to other sciences to do. The <q>element</q>
of Political Economy is Man. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Pickford</hi>, Einleitung
in die politische Œk., 1860, 17.</note> But
<pb n='084'/><anchor id='Pg084'/>
it should never be lost sight of, that the natural laws governing
the public economy of a people, like those of the human
mind, are distinguished in one very essential point from those
of the material world. They have to do with free rational beings,
who, because they are thus free and rational, are responsible
to God and their conscience, and constitute in their aggregate
a species capable of progress.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1="Section XIV. Origin Of A Nation's Economy."/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XIV.'/>
<anchor id="Section_14"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XIV.</head>
<head>Origin Of A Nation's Economy.</head>

<p>
The public economy of a people has its origin simultaneously
with the people. It is neither the invention of man nor
the revelation of God. It is the natural product of the faculties
and propensities which make man man.<note place='foot'>It is in this sense that
<hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi> (Polit., I, p. 1, 9 Schn.) says: φανερὸν,
ὅτι τῶν φύσει ἡ πόλις ἐστὶ, καὶ ὅτι ἄνθρωπος φύσει πολιτικὸν ζῶον.
According to <hi rend='italic'>L. Stein, Lehrbuch der Volkswirthschaft</hi>,
1858, 33, the political economy of a people begins at the point where the
overplus of individuals begins.</note> Just as it may
be shown, that the family which lives isolated from all others,
contains, in itself, the germs of all political organization,<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>K. L. von Haller</hi>, Restauration der Staatswissenchaft, I, p.
446 ff.</note> so
may it be demonstrated, that every independent household
management contains the germs of all politico-economical
activity. The public economy of a nation grows with the
nation. With the nation, it blooms and ripens. Its season
of blossoming and of maturity is the period of its greatest
strength, and, at the same time, of the most perfect development
<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>
of all its more important organs.<note place='foot'>As <hi rend='italic'>Sallust</hi>
characterizes the political apogee of the Romans: <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>Optimis moribus et maxima concordia egit populus Romanus
inter secundum atque postremum bellum Carthaginiense.</foreign> See
<hi rend='italic'>Augustin</hi> (Civ. Dei II, 18). <hi rend='italic'>Puchta</hi>
(Institutionen, I, f. 83), with a great deal of good sense, distinguishes in every
people their individual character from that which they share in common with
all mankind. The latter exists among savage nations, only as a germ buried
under the overpowering weight of that which is special to them. The period
of the perfect equilibrium of both elements is coincident with that of a
people's real culture. In the further course of development, the latter, more
general element becomes gradually over-powerful, destroys the individual,
and thus dissolves nationality.</note> In respect to it, the
economic endeavors of any epoch may be said to be represented
by two great parties, the one progressive, the other,
conservative. The former would hasten the period of the nation's
richest and most varied development, the latter postpone
its departure as long as possible; and hence it comes, that a
people's economic decline is sometimes taken for progress, by
the former class, and their progress for decline, by the latter.
As a rule, the union and equilibrium of these parties are wont
to be the greatest at the period of maturity, because, then, intelligence
and the spirit of sacrifice for the common good are
most general.<note place='foot'>Thus formulated, the principles
of the two great parties, evidently, no more contradict
one another than their ordinary watchwords, <q>freedom</q>
and <q>order,</q> are in contrast with one another. Hence all the great statesmen
of the best periods of history have adopted the middle course recommended
by Aristotle.</note>
</p>

<p>
Finally, the public economy of a nation declines with the
people. (<hi rend='italic'>Infra</hi>, § 263 ff.)
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XV. Diseases Of The Social Organism.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XV.</head>
<head>Diseases Of The Social Organism.</head>

<p>
If the public economy of a people be an organism, we must
expect to find that the perturbations, which affect it, present
some analogies to the diseases of the body physical. We
may, therefore, hope to learn much that may be of use in
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
practice, from the tried methods of medicine.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Lotze</hi>, Allgemeine Pathologie, 1842.
<hi rend='italic'>Ruete</hi>, Lehrbuch der allgemeinen
Therapie, 1852. These analogies, obviously, should not be pushed too far.
One of the most essential differences between the two consists in this, that
in the diseases of the body politic, physicians and nurses are themselves part
of the diseased organism.</note> In the diseases
of the body economic, it is necessary to distinguish accurately,
between the nature of the disease and its external symptoms,
although it may be necessary to combat the latter directly,
and not merely with a view to alleviation. Following the
example of the physician, we should particularly direct our
attention to the curative method which nature itself would
pursue, were art not to intervene. <q>The curative power of
nature is no peculiar power; it is the result of a series of happy
adjustments, by means of which the morbid perturbation itself
sets in motion the springs which may either destroy the evil
or paralyze its action. It is, in fact, nothing but the original
power which formed the body and preserves its life in contact
with the external causes of perturbation and the internal disorder
provoked by these causes.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Ruete.</hi>)
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter II. Position Of Political Economy In
The Circle Of Related Sciences.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter II.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter II.</head>
<head>Position Of Political Economy In
The Circle Of Related Sciences.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XVI. Political Or National Economy.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XVI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XVI.</head>
<head>Political Or National Economy.</head>

<p>
By the science of national,<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>Ahren's</hi>
very beautiful exposition, Organische Staatslehre, 1850, I, 77. National economy
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Nationalökonomie</foreign>=public
economy); national economics (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Nationalökonomik</foreign>=the science of public economy).
The latter term was first proposed, in Germany, in 1849, by
<hi rend='italic'>Uhde</hi>; the former was naturalized therein 1805:
<hi rend='italic'>v. Soden</hi>, Nationalökonomie, 1805; <hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>,
Grundsätze der N. Œk., 1806. In Italy, <hi rend='italic'>G. Ortes</hi> used it as
early as 1774, in his Dell Economia nazionale, and in England it was employed, even in
1867, by <hi rend='italic'>Ferguson</hi>, History of Civil Society, III, p. 4.
Holland. Volkshuyshoudkunde. As a rule, outside of Germany, the term political
economy, <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>économie politique</foreign>,
one which is somewhat calculated to mislead the student, is used. (Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Montchrêtien sieur de Vatteville</hi>, Traité de l'Economie
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>politique</foreign>, 165; later
<hi rend='italic'>J. J. Rousseau</hi>, Discours sur l'Economie politique, later yet
the Traités d'E. p., <hi rend='italic'>Maillardère</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Page</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, 1801-1803). Political Economy
(<hi rend='italic'>Sir J. Stewart</hi>, Inquiry into the principles of P. E., 1767);
also Public Economy (<hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>, several Essays, 1682, 35);
<hi rend='italic'>Economia politica</hi> or <hi rend='italic'>pubblica</hi> (the
latter by <hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Beccaria</hi>). The title
<hi rend='italic'>Economia civile</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>Genovesi</hi>, Lezioni,
d'Ec. civ. 1769), has found few adherents. It has, however, been used recently by
<hi rend='italic'>Cernuschi</hi>: Illusions des Sociétés coöperatrices (1866). The
term, <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Economie sociale</foreign> has
been used all the more in France (Dunoyer, Nouveau Traité d'Ec. soc., 1830), since
recommended by <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, and employed by
<hi rend='italic'>Buat</hi> (Des vrais Principes de l'Origine et de la Filiation
du Mot Economie politique, in the Journal des Economistes, 1852.)</note>
or Political Economy, we understand
the science which has to do with the laws of the development
of the economy of a nation, or with its economic national
life. (Philosophy of the history of Political Economy,
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
according to von Mangoldt.) Like all the political sciences, or
sciences of <emph>national life</emph>, it is concerned, on the one hand, with
the consideration of the individual man, and on the other, it
extends its investigations to the whole of human kind.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Stein</hi>, Lehrbuck der V. W., prefaces his <q>Science of Public
Economy</q> (pp. 329-358), by a <q>Science of Economy</q> (pp. 96-328), which, however,
treats individual economies only as the elements of the national economy. A science
of household or isolated individual economy could, of course, treat only
of the economic relations of anchorites. Those who object that Political
Economy is not a real whole will be satisfied with the definition of it given
by <hi rend='italic'>F. I. Neumann</hi>: <q>The Science of the bearing of household
or separate economies to one another, and to the state as a whole.</q> (Tüb.
Zeitschr., 1872, 267.)</note>
</p>

<p>
National life, like all life, is a whole, the various phenomena
of which are most intimately connected with one another.
Hence it is, that to understand one side of it scientifically, it is
necessary to know all its sides. But, especially, is it necessary
to fix one's attention on the following seven: language, religion,
art, science, law, the state and economy.<note place='foot'>In so far
as these various institutions are concerned, with objects beyond
the human, or supernatural, only the manner in which they are accepted, or
in which they are made use of, is an expression of national life.</note> Without
language, all higher mental activity is unthinkable; without religion,
all else would lose its firmest foundation and highest
aim. Through art, alone, do all these sides attain to beauty;
through science, alone, to clearness. Law arises, the moment
conflicts of will become inevitable and an adjustment is desired.
The state has to do with them, in so far as they have any external
force or validity. Indeed, there is no human relation,
not even the highest and the sweetest, but has its economic
interests. It is, therefore, natural, that each of the sciences
which relate to these various regions of human life should, in
part, presuppose all others, and, in part, serve as a basis for
them.<note place='foot'>Thus, <hi rend='italic'>J. Tucker</hi> thinks
that religion, the state and commerce, are only
the parts of one same general plan: no institution, therefore, can be called
appropriate, within the limits of the province of any one of these, if it be
clearly in opposition to the other two, because the harmony of God's work
can not be broken up. (Four Tracts and two Sermons on political and commercial
Subjects, 1774, Serm. I.)</note>
</p>

<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>

<p>
But in the midst of this universal relationship, it is easy to
see that law, the state and economy constitute a family, as
it were apart and more closely connected. (The social sciences,
in the narrower sense of the expression.)
</p>

<p>
They are confined almost exclusively to what Schleiermacher
has called <q>effective action</q> (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>wirksame Handeln</foreign>), while art and
science belong almost entirely to the <q>action of representation</q>
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>darstellenden Handeln</foreign>);
and religion and language combine both kinds. Law, the state, and economy too, have
their roots so deep in the physical and intellectual imperfection
of man, that we can scarcely imagine their continuance
beyond his life on earth (Gospel of Matthew, 22, 30). But
within these limits, their several provinces and the subjects
with which they are concerned are almost coincident. They
only consider these from different points of view: the science
of politics from that of sovereignty; the science of Political
Economy from that of the satisfaction of the requirement of
external goods by the people; the science of law from that of
the prevention or the peaceable adjustment of conflicts of will.
As every economic act, consciously or unconsciously, supposes
forms of law, so, by far the greater number of the laws relating
to rights, and the greater number of judgments in the
matter of rights, contain an economic element. In numberless
cases, the science of law gives us only the external <emph>how</emph>; the
deeper <emph>why</emph> is revealed to us by the science of Political
Economy.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Riedel</hi> (National Œkonomie,
1838, I, p. 178 seq.), gives a good illustration of the difference
between the manner in which law and Political Economy look
at the same question. The law (to avoid strife, or to settle controversies)
looks upon the debtor as the owner of the capital, and lets him run all the
risk; Political Economy, on the other hand, looking deeper into the nature
of the contract, reaches an entirely opposite result. The mere jurist has a
dangerous tendency to undervalue the reign of the laws of nature; the mere
political economist, just as readily, undervalues the element of free will.
(<hi rend='italic'>Arnold</hi>, Cultur und Recht I, 97.) In this respect,
the two sciences complement each other very well. <hi rend='italic'>Roesler</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrb., 1868, II, and 1869,
I.) shows, and he does not exaggerate the fact, that political economists have
made altogether too little use of the results of the science of
law.</note><note place='foot'>Jurists will always experience
the want of divesting their isolated ideas of
their purely accidental character, by grouping them together in such a manner
as to make them constitute a complete and independent whole. One
must be possessed of profound knowledge to perceive their necessary connection
from an historico-juridical point of view. Political Economy, with
its characteristic accuracy and practical utility, can best take its place, at the
present time. It is in the greater number of legal questions, the systematically
elaborated science of <q>the nature of the thing.</q> See the able beginnings
of a policy of legislation and higher history of law, based on Political Economy,
by <hi rend='italic'>H. Dankwardt</hi>: N. Œk. und Jurisprudenz, 3 Hefte, 1857, and my
preface to <hi rend='italic'>Dankwardt's</hi> Nationalökonomisch-civilistischen
Studien, 1862.</note>
And, as to the state, who, for instance, can appreciate
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
the political significance of a nobility, without understanding
the economic character of rent, and of the possession of large
landed estates? Who can politically appreciate the inferior
classes of society, unless initiated into a knowledge of the laws
that govern wages and population? It were much easier to
cultivate psychology without physiology! <q>The state is
society protected by force</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Herbart</hi>). There are two bases
to all material power:<note place='foot'>The intellectual power of a people
depends upon the vigorous and harmonious development of all seven
spheres of life.</note> wealth and warlike ability (χρήματα&mdash;ναυτικά,
according to Thucydides); and how much the latter
has need of the former is well expressed by the familiar saying
of Montecuccoli: <q>Money is not only the first, but the second and
third condition of war.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Montecuccoli</hi>,
Besondere und geheime Kriegsnachrichten (Leipzig, 1736).
A very similar judgment by Cæsar in <hi rend='italic'>Dio Cass.</hi>, XLII, 49.</note>
</p>

<p>
Frederick the Great calls finance the pulse of the state,
and Richelieu, the point of support which Archimedes was in
search of, to move the world. In all modern nations, the history
of the debates on the raising of revenue and of the passing
of budgets is, at the same time, the history of parliamentary
life; and most great revolutions, the Reformation of the sixteenth
century not excepted, if not caused have been promoted,
by financial embarrassment.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XVII. Sciences Relating To National Life.&mdash;The
Science Of Public Economy.&mdash;The Science Of Finance.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XVII.</head>
<head>Sciences Relating To National Life.&mdash;The Science
Of Public Economy.&mdash;The Science Of Finance.</head>

<p>
If, by the public economy of a nation, we understand economic
legislation and the governmental guidance or direction
of the economy of private persons,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Bülan</hi>,
Handbuch der Staatswirthschaftslehre, 1835.</note> the science of public economy
becomes, so far as its form is concerned, a branch of
political science, while as to its matter, its subject is almost coincident
with that of Political Economy. Hence it is, that so
many writers use the terms public economy, or the economy
of the state (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Staatswirthschaft</foreign>),
and National Economy (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Volkswirthschaft</foreign>),
as synonymous.<note place='foot'>Thus <hi rend='italic'>v. Justi</hi>,
Staatswirthschaft 1755. <hi rend='italic'>Kraus</hi>, Staatswirthschaft, published
by Auerswald, 1808; <hi rend='italic'>Schmalz</hi>, Handbuch der Staatswirthschaft, 1808.
More recently, <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatswirthschaftliche Untersuchungen,
1832. In France, the expression <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>économie
de l'état</foreign>, is very seldom used. <hi rend='italic'>Gavard</hi>,
Principes del'E. d'Etat, 1796.</note> The hypothesis, in accordance
with which, this science should discard all consideration of the
state, or should refuse to presuppose its formation,<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Pölitz</hi>, Staatswissenschaften im Lichte unserer Zeit, II, 3.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>, Handbuch der Staatswirthschaft (2d ed., 1837),
I, 10 ff.</note> would lead
us into an ideal region, difficult to define, probably entirely impossible,
and inaccessible to experience.
</p>

<p>
Just as clear, is the close connection between politics and
Political Economy, in the case of the science of finance, or
of the science of governmental house-keeping, otherwise the
administration of public affairs. The latter, evidently, so far
as its end is concerned, belongs to politics, but so far as the
means to that end are concerned, to National Economy. As
the physiologist cannot understand the action of the human
body, without understanding that of the head; so we would
not be able to grasp the organic whole of national economy, if
we were to leave the state, the greatest economy of all, the
<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>
one which uninterruptedly and irresistibly acts on all others,
out of consideration.<note place='foot'>Our view of Political Economy holds a
middle place between opposed extremes. The view expressed by <hi
rend='italic'>Whately</hi>, Lectures on Political Economy (1831), No. 1, and
covered by the proposed term <q>catalactics,</q> is by far too narrow. Similarly,
<hi rend='italic'>Macleod</hi>, Elements of Political Economy, 1858, I, 11.
A like objection may be raised to the earlier title of <hi
rend='italic'>Pritzwitz's</hi> book: Die Kunst reich zu werden,&mdash;the art of
growing rich. On the other hand, <hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>, Liberté du Travail
(1845), L. IX, ch. I, goes too far altogether: <q>not only in what manner a nation
grows rich, but according to what laws it best succeeds, in the execution of all its
functions.</q> And so <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, translated into German
by <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, I, 9. Many modern writers define Political Economy
simply as the theory of society; for instance, <hi rend='italic'>Scialoja</hi>, Principj.
dell'Economia sociale, 1840. <hi rend='italic'>Cibrario</hi>, E. polit. del medio
Evo, III, 1842.</note>
</p>

<p>
By the term <hi rend='italic'>police</hi>, we mean the state power whose office it
is, without mediation, to prevent all disturbances of external order
among the people.<note place='foot'>For the many and various definitions of the
police power, see <hi rend='italic'>von Berg</hi>, Handbuch des Polezeirechts, I,
1-12; <hi rend='italic'>Butte</hi>, Versuch der Begründung eines System der Polezei
(1807), 6 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Rosshirt</hi>, Ueber den Begriff der Staatspolizoi
(1817), 34 ff. One of the principal difficulties is, that the practical domain of
the police power is, in consequence of the successive grades of civilization
through which a people passes, subject to greater modifications than any
other state power. We call attention especially to the expressions <q>without
mediation, to prevent,</q> and <q>external order,</q> in our definition. The church,
the school, the administration of justice etc., act mediately towards the prevention
of such disturbances; and there are many other institutions which
offer immediate protection to order of a higher and more intellectual nature.</note>
It may extend its action into all the
domains of national life mentioned above, whenever external
order is there threatened, or calls for protection; but its action is
important especially in the domains of law and economy. The
science of the <hi rend='italic'>police power</hi>, therefore, of all those doctrines
resulting from investigation into national life, takes up only
one phase of each of them; and the phases of doctrine thus
taken up, it combines into a whole, for practical ends. Its relation
to those sciences is like that of surgery to the medical sciences,
or like the science of legal procedure to the science of
law.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XVIII. Sciences Relating To National
Life.&mdash;Statistics.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XVIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XVIII.</head>
<head>Sciences Relating To National Life.&mdash;Statistics.</head>

<p>
Statistics we call the picture or representation of social life
at given periods of time, and especially at the present time,
drawn on a scale in accordance with the laws of development
discovered by means of the theoretical sciences above named;
as it were, a section through the stream. (<hi rend='italic'>Schlözer</hi> calls
them: history standing still.)<note place='foot'>See the great
number of earlier definitions collected in <hi rend='italic'>R. von Mohl</hi>, Gesch.
und Literatur der Staatswissenschaften III, pp. 637 ff. There are two principal
groups of them, the one of which considers it as the science of things
of political note, the other as the science of actual or past conditions.</note>
Statistics, as thus defined, are
as far removed from saying too much as from saying too little.
To give a complete tableau of their object, statistics should,
of course, take in the life of a people, in all its aspects. But
they should look upon such facts only as their own property,
the meaning of which they are able to understand; that is,
such only as can be ranged under known laws of development.
Unintelligible facts are collected only in the hope of
penetrating into their meaning in the future, by comparing
them with one another. In the meantime, they are to the statistician
only what unfinished experiments are to the investigator
of nature.
</p>

<p>
The view is daily gaining ground, that statistics should be
occupied&mdash;without, however, confining themselves to them&mdash;with
present facts, with <q>facts affecting society and the state,
which are susceptible of being expressed in figures.</q><note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Dufau</hi>, Traité de Statistique, 1840; <hi rend='italic'>Moreau
de Jonnès</hi>, Elements de Statistique, 1847; <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, Die
Statistik als selbstständige Wissenschaft, 1850. <hi rend='italic'>B. Hildebrand</hi>,
in his Jahrbüchern, 1866, I etc., but especially <hi rend='italic'>Quetelet's</hi> works.
For the contrary view, see <hi rend='italic'>Fallati</hi>, Einleitung in die
Wissenschaft der Statistik der St., 1843; <hi rend='italic'>Jonak</hi>, Theorie der
Statistik, 1856, and <hi rend='italic'>Heeren</hi>, in the Gött.
Gelehrten Anzeigen, 1806, No. 84, 1807, 1302.</note> The
more deceptive the immediate observation of an individual,
isolated fact is, in cases where a great number of simultaneous
<pb n='094'/><anchor id='Pg094'/>
or scattered individual isolated facts of national life should be
observed, the more important it is to discover proper numerical
relations, by noting all the like acts or experiences of men,
the time and place in question, and the relation of the aggregate
of these phenomena, to the sum-total of the population,
or to the sum-total of corresponding phenomena in other
places. When this is done, and the facts are completely enumerated
and correctly recorded, there is no danger of subjective
error. And this species of <q>political and social measuring,</q>
as Hildebrand calls it, may be applied, not only to
quantities, but to all qualities accessible to the observation of
the senses; since the individual or isolated qualities of the
things enumerated, may be again made objects of enumeration.
Without doubt, this mode of numerical procedure is the
most perfect for all those divisions of statistics in which it can
be followed; and hence, it should be our endeavor to make
the numerical side of statistics as comprehensive as possible.
But, one side of a science is not a science itself. As there is
no natural science proper called microscopy, embracing all
the observations made by means of the microscope, so care
should be taken not to deduce the principle of a science from
the chief instrument it employs. There will always be many
and important facts in national life which can not be subjected
to numerical calculation, although they may be established
with the usual amount of historical certainty. Were statistics
to be limited, in the manner mentioned above, they would remain
a collection of fragments, and instead of being a science,
properly so-called, become a method.<note place='foot'>So thinks <hi rend='italic'>v.
Rümelin</hi> (Tübinger Zeitschr., 1863, 653 ff.); and he recommends
in place of statistics an independent branch of learning bordering on history
and geography, to be called demography. His statistics is a science auxiliary
to all the experimental sciences of man, just as criticism and hermeneutics
are a methodological science auxiliary to many sciences, otherwise different.
It would be difficult to justify the use of the name statistics for such a science,
as such a science corresponds to neither of the two meanings of the word
<hi rend='italic'>status</hi> (state&mdash;condition).</note>
</p>

<p>
Besides, it is evident, that, of statistics in general, economic
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
statistics constitute a chief part, and precisely the part most
accessible to numerical treatment. As these economic statistics
need to be always directed by the light of Political Economy,
they also furnish it with rich materials for the continuation
of its structure, and for the strengthening of such foundations
as it already has. They, are, moreover, the indispensable condition
of the application of economic theorems to practice.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XIX. Private Economy&mdash;Cameralistic Science.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XIX.</head>
<head>Private Economy&mdash;Cameralistic Science.</head>

<p>
The meaning of the term cameralistic science (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Cameralwissenschaft</foreign>)
can be explained only by the history of the cameralistic
system.<note place='foot'>The ancients understood by the term καμάρα
<hi rend='italic'>camera</hi>, covered places such especially as were vaulted, also
vaults of the most varied kind. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Herod</hi>, I, 199;
<hi rend='italic'>Diod.</hi>, II, 9; <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, XI, 495;
<hi rend='italic'>Arrian</hi>, Exp. <hi rend='italic'>Alex.</hi>, VII, 5, 55;
<hi rend='italic'>Dio Cass</hi>. XXXVI, 32; <hi rend='italic'>Sallust</hi>, B. C., 55;
<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, ad Q. fratrem III, 1; <hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, H.
N. XXX, 27; <hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi>, Epist., 86; <hi rend='italic'>Tacit.</hi>
Hist. III, 47; <hi rend='italic'>Sueton</hi>, Nero, 34. During the middle ages, the
meaning treasure-chamber (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Schatzkammer</foreign>) became predominant: <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>camera est locus, in quem thesaurus recoilligitur, vel
conclave, in quo pecunia reservatur</foreign> (<hi rend='italic'>Ocham</hi>, Cap. Quid
sit Scaccarium). It gradually became synonymous with finance,&mdash;from the time of
Charlemagne, or at least since Louis II. (Charter of 874). See
<hi rend='italic'>Ducange</hi>, Glossarium, v. Camera, and
<hi rend='italic'>Muratori</hi> Antiquitt. Ital., I, 932 ff.</note>
From the end of the middle ages, we find,
in most German countries, an institution called the Council
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Kammer</foreign>) whose
province it was to administer the public
domain, and to watch over regal rights. At first, a mere
governmental commission, it was not long before it developed
into an independent board. This change had taken place in
Burgundy as early as the year 1409. It was in that country
that the emperor Maximilian became acquainted with the institution;
and by the erection of the aulic councils at Innspruck
and Vienna (1498 and 1501), he gave the principal impulse to
the imitation of it in Germany. As, at that time, the division
of labor was very little developed, and personal and collegial
authority all the more developed in consequence, it is easy to
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
conceive that a great part of all the new and rapidly increasing
business of police administration was confided to these
councils. They were charged especially with what is known
to-day as economic police (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Wirthschaftspolizei</foreign>) and an important
part of the administration of justice, in its lower departments,
was turned over to their subordinates. The most
eminent men who wrote, in the seventeenth century, on cameralistic
matters, laid great stress on the point, that it was the
duty of the aulic councils to entertain not only fiscal questions,
but that it was within their province also, to determine questions
of economic police.<note place='foot'><q>A husbandman must plow and manure his land
if he would reap a harvest from it. He must fatten his cattle if he would slaughter
them; and furnish his cows with good fodder if he would have them give good milk.
In like manner, a prince should begin by assuring his subjects healthy and abundant
food, if he would take anything from them.</q> <hi rend='italic'>von Schröder</hi>,
Fürstl. Schatz-und Rentkammer (1686), preface, § 11. <hi rend='italic'>Von Horneck</hi>
before him, Oesterreich über alles wann es nur will, p. 220, ed. of 1707, had expressed
the idea that the watchful solicitude for the public economy of the country was
no <hi rend='italic'>parergon</hi>, no <hi rend='italic'>appendix</hi>, to the council
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Kammer</foreign>), but its real basis, and
that it embraced many subjects which had nothing in common with the
cameralia (<q><foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Cameralien</foreign></q>).</note>
The interest of absolute princes
must have greatly favored these cameralistic institutions, for
they were in their hands docile tools, which escaped the annoying
intervention of the states of their realms.
</p>

<p>
By degrees, the knowledge necessary to these council
officials, and which found no place in the lectures on law, were
formed into a special body of doctrine. After such men as
Morhof and Thomasius had prepared the way,<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Morhof</hi>, Polyhistor (1688), III. <hi rend='italic'>Thomasius</hi>,
1728, Cautelæ circa præcognita Jurisprudentiæ (1710), ch. 17. (Cautelæ circa studium
œconomicum.) Also, in his lectures on <hi rend='italic'>Seckendorff's</hi>
<q>Teutschen Fürstenstaat.</q> Compare <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Gesch. der N.
Œk. in Deutschland, 328 ff.</note> Frederick
William I., himself a clever cameralist, and author of the masterly
financial system of Prussia, took the important step of
founding, at Halle and Frankfurt on the Oder, special chairs
of economy and cameralistic science; which, considering the
time, were very ably filled by Gasser and Dithmar. (1727.)
<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>
There was thus formed in the German universities a distinct
school of cameralists, which, through Jung, Rössig and
Schmalz, reached to the nineteenth century. The term cameralistic
science, the creature of chance, was used, it must be
said, with very various limits to its meaning.<note place='foot'>While
<hi rend='italic'>Dithmar</hi> (1731) distinguishes economy-police and cameralistic
sciences and restricts the latter to finance and taxation;
<hi rend='italic'>Darjes</hi> (1756) comprises under the name of cameralistic science,
economy (municipal and rural), and police, as well as cameralistic subjects in the
strict sense of the term, that is, the public, domain and regal rights. While
<hi rend='italic'>Nau</hi> (1791), in his <q>Ersten Linien der C.,</q> treats only of
the branches of private economy, <hi rend='italic'>Schmalz</hi>, (1797) treats also of
national or public economy, and <hi rend='italic'>Rössig</hi> (1792) divides
cameralistic science into the doctrine of the public demesne and regal rights
(cameralistic science in the narrower sense), and the doctrine of taxation and
police.</note>
</p>

<p>
However, Political Economy in Germany developed out of
the science of law and the cameralistic sciences, while in England
and Italy it had its origin chiefly in the study of questions
of finance and foreign commerce.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XX. Private Economy. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XX.</head>
<head>Private Economy. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
If we abstract from cameralistic science as it was understood
in the last century, what it has in common with all economy,<note place='foot'>Thus,
for instance, all that concerns domestic economy, book-keeping and
private financial administration.</note>
and therefore with public economy, next that which belongs to
the aggregate of governmental economy, there remains only a
number of rules, such as those which govern the principal
branches of private business, and which indicate how they are
to be carried on with the greatest advantage to those who engage
in them. Such are forest and rural economy, mining
science, technology, including architecture, and all that concerns
founderies, and commercial science. Now that the expression
cameralistic science is altogether obsolete, the aggregate
<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>
of these might be designated by the name private economy.
Obviously, we should have here, neither a simple nor pure science,
but only a compilation of natural-philosophical and economic
lemmas. Thus, in agriculture, for instance, a knowledge
of the different kinds of soil, of the tillage of land, of the
different plants and animals etc., belongs to the domain of natural
science; while all that relates to the cost of production, the
employment of capital, the wages of labor, the exchange of
products, net product and the price of land, are purely politico-economical.
The political economists also require a knowledge
of the natural side of the cameralistic sciences. Such a
knowledge is indispensable to every detailed and living theory,
and especially to the application of economic science to practice.
The great difference lies in this, that the cameralist interests
himself in the production of material goods for their own
sake, while the political economist regards them only in their
relations to national life.<note place='foot'><p><hi rend='italic'>John Stuart
Mill</hi>, Principles of Political Economy (1848), I, p. 25, draws
a distinction between the physical conditions which influence the economic
situation of a people, and the moral and psychological conditions; which last
have their origin in social institutions or in the fundamental principles of human
nature. Only the latter belong to the domain of Political Economy.
According to <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité, Introd., this science embraces
at once agriculture, manufactures and commerce, but only in their relation to the
increase or diminution of wealth, and does not concern itself with the means employed
to reach the desired end. As a rule, says <hi rend='italic'>Arndt</hi> (Naturgemässe
Volkswirthschaft, 1851, p. 16), it takes into consideration not so much things themselves
as their exchange value. <hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi> (Handbuch, I, p. 6 seq.), in like
manner, defines Political Economy&mdash;the science of the one activity which constitutes
the basis of all industries etc. <hi rend='italic'>F. G. Schulze</hi> (Ueber
volkswirthschaftliche Begründung der Gewerbswissenschaften, 1826), characterizes
Political Economy as the science of the fundamental conditions of the well-being of a
people, in so far as they lie in human nature.
</p>
<p>
When <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> (book IV, c. II) says that the government in
respect to matters of economy is inferior to the first best person engaged in industrial
pursuits, he is right only from a technic point of view. And when
<hi rend='italic'>Stewart</hi>, on the other hand, vindicates for the state the office
of a pater-familias (book II, ch. 13), he evidently means only in national economical
matters.</p></note>
</p>

<p>
It would seem, moreover, that political economists, especially
<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>
in Germany, have attached too much importance to putting
formal bounds to their special science. Why not rather follow
the example of the students of nature who care little
whether this or that discovery belongs to physics or chemistry,
to astronomy or mathematics, provided, only, very many
and important discoveries are made?<note place='foot'>See also
<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi> (Ueber die Cameralwissenschaft, Entwickelung ihres Wesens
und ihrer Theile, 1825); <hi rend='italic'>Baumstark</hi> (Cameralistische
Enclycopädie, 1835).</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXI. What Political Economy Treats Of.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXI.</head>
<head>What Political Economy Treats Of.</head>

<p>
Political Economy treats chiefly of the material interests of
nations. It inquires how the various wants of the people of a
country, especially those of food, clothing, fuel, shelter, of the
sexual instinct etc., may be satisfied; how the satisfaction of
these wants influences the aggregate national life, and how
in turn, they are influenced by the national life. (Gospel of
Matth., 4, 4.) This alone suffices to enable us to estimate the
importance of the science. The relation of virtue to wealth
is likened by Bacon to that of an army to its baggage. In
Xenophon's opinion, wealth is really useful only to him who
knows how to make a good use of it. From an economic point
of view, the happiest man is he who has accumulated most,
honorably, and used it best.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi> Œconom.
I, 8 ff. Cyrop. VIII; 2, 23. He saw with equal clearness
the moral light and shade of wealth. (Œcon. XI. 9. Conviv. 4. Memor.
I, 6. Cyrop. VIII, 3, 35 ff. Hiero 4.)</note> That, even in a material sense,
the intellect of a people is their most important element, is evident
from the example of the Chinese, who were so long acquainted
with printing, powder, and the mariner's compass,
without, by their means, attaining to intelligent public opinion,
forming a good army, or coming to an understanding of the
art of navigation, to any great extent.
</p>

<p>
The undervaluing of economic matters, for which ages of
inferior cultivation, our own middle ages for instance, are now
<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>
praised and now blamed, was really a rare exception even
during these ages.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Thomas Aquinas</hi>
values earthly goods according to the end they are made to serve; when
used for a good purpose, they have a mediately true value. Hence it was
an error of the stoics to despise them under all circumstances.
(Summa Theol. II, 2. Qu., 50, 3. 58, 2. 59, 3. 125, 4.)</note>
Other kinds of acquisition and enjoyment
then occupied the foreground; but there never was a time,
when gain and enjoyment in general were not favorite objects
of pursuit, and held in high esteem. The physical wants of
uncultured men cry out much louder than intellectual ones.
(§ <ref target="Section_2">2</ref>,
<ref target="Section_14">14</ref>.)<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Whateley</hi>
considers the savage much beneath the materialist, instead of
superior to him. The latter possesses, although he frequently abuses it, the
faculty of self-control and forethought, which is entirely wanting in the
former. (Lectures, No. 6.) <hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>, De la Liberté du Traväil,
liv. IV, ch. I, 8, an apology for the moral wholesomeness of civilization, since promotive
of military prowess, favorable to the development of the sciences, and even
poetical. <hi rend='italic'>Baudrillart</hi>, Manual d'Œkonomie politique, 1857, 24.
See <hi rend='italic'>Fallati</hi>, Ueber die sogennannte materiellen Tendenz der
Gegenwart, 1842.</note> On the other hand, in over-cultivated ages, when
decay begins, an over-estimation of material things is wont to
become general.<note place='foot'>See the inscription on the tomb of Sardanapalus:
ταῦτ᾽ ἔχω, ὄσσ᾽ ἔφαγον καὶ ἐφύβρισα καί μετ᾽ ἔδωτος τέδπν ἔπαθον. (Strabo, XIV,
672.) <hi rend='italic'>Isaiah</hi>, 122, 13, 56, 12, and the book of wisdom (2)
characterizes the view of the fallen Jewish people. In Greece, the Cynic and Epicurean
schools were only different phases of the same degeneration. <q>Thirst, for
money, and nothing else, will be the ruin of Sparta!</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>,
De Offic, II, 22, 77.) See the magnificent description by Demosthenes, in which he shows
the over-estimation of material things to be the principal cause of the decline
of Athens, and in which he lays great stress on the fact, that Athens, on its
decay, had a larger population, more wealth, ships, and evidences of external
power, than in its golden age. (Phil., III, 120 seq.) Also Phil., IV, 144,
cautions us against the Manchester criterion of national prosperity. See
<hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, De Rep., VIII. In Rome, the principle <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>ommia venalia esse</foreign> was a chief element in the total
decline and fall of the republic. (<hi rend='italic'>Sallust</hi>, Cat., 10 ff., Jug.,
8 ff.) In an age when people think they can do everything with money, the
ruin of all things is the last end of mercantile, financial and political speculation.
(<hi rend='italic'>Condillac</hi>, Le Commerce et le Gouverment, 1776, II, 18.)</note>
The mere servants of mammon, whether
as political economists or as private individuals, may see their
depravity faithfully reflected in communism as in a mirror.
We should not overlook the fact that it is with whole nations
<pb n='101'/><anchor id='Pg101'/>
as with the individual man who amasses his own fortune. He
reaches the culminating point of his wealth generally after he
has passed the prime of life. The most flourishing period of
a nation's existence is wont just to precede its decay, and to
introduce it.<note place='foot'>Under Pericles, the Athenian treasury of the state
contained at most 9,700 talents. (<hi rend='italic'>Thucyd.</hi> II, 13.) On the
other hand, Alexander the Great had a treasure of 180,000 talents accumulated in the
citadel of Ecbatana. (<hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, XV, 731); Ptolomy II. left after
him 740,000 talents. (<hi rend='italic'>Appian.</hi> præf. 10,
<hi rend='italic'>Droysen</hi>, Geschichte des Hellenismus II, 44 ff.) In Nero's time
there was many a freedman's daughter who owned a looking glass worth a greater sum
than the senate had appropriated as a dowry to the daughter of the great Scipio.
(<hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi>, Quæst. Natur. I, 17. Compare Cons, ad Helviam, 12.)
<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi> says that an intelligent despotism can enrich a
nation as well as freedom. (In his Discourse on the Rise, etc. of Polit. Econ., 1825,
77 seq.)</note> Hence, here nothing could be more untrue, as
Macchiavelli has remarked, than the general opinion that
money is the sinew of war.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Bacon</hi> (Sermones,
56) says that youthful states distinguish themselves specially by
their warlike instincts; mature states in literature; old and decaying
ones in industry and commerce. <hi rend='italic'>Davenant</hi> very happily remarks,
that the development of commerce among a people has an ambiguous value.
It, indeed, increases wealth, but, at the same time, it may introduce luxury,
covetousness and fraud, destroy virtue, do away with simplicity of manners
and customs, and then it inevitably ends in internal or external slavery.
(Works II, 275.) The simplicity of the patriarchal state, however, cannot
last always, if for no other reason, because of the emulation of foreign nations.
(1, 348, ff.) The impoverishment of even the wealthiest nation is
certainly inevitable when its morality declines. It is especially true, that the
public economy of a people can be prosperous only where political liberty
obtains, and this, independent of the fact that wealth without freedom has no
value. (II, 336 ff., 380, ff., 285.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Ferguson</hi>,
private wealth, honestly acquired, used rightly and with moderation, managed with a
sense of independence, may be to those who possess it, an element of self-confidence
and of liberty, provided they loosen their purse strings not through vanity
or for their personal gratification, but for commendable party purposes. But
in periods of decay, even a greater amount of wealth is very far from producing
these results. (History of Civil Society, VI, 5.) <hi rend='italic'>Whately</hi>, on the
contrary, maintains that only personal wealth&mdash;never national wealth&mdash;has
a disastrous influence on morals. Lectures, No. 2.</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='102'/><anchor id='Pg102'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter III. The Methods Of Political Economy.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter III.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter III.</head>
<head>The Methods Of Political Economy.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXII. Former Methods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXII.</head>
<head>Former Methods.</head>

<p>
The methods<note place='foot'><q>The method of a science is of
much greater importance than any individual discovery,
however wonderful.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Cuvier.</hi>)</note>
which would apply to any science of national
life, principles borrowed from any other science, are now generally
looked upon as obsolete. This is true, especially, of
the theological method which prevailed, almost exclusively
during the middle ages,<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance, <hi rend='italic'>G.
Biel</hi> (ob. 1495), the <q>last of the schoolmen,</q> gives
us his doctrine of Political Economy, in a work on Dogmatic Theology, in
the chapter on Penance, his starting point being the inquiry, how the economic
damage caused by the sinner may be repaired. <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Geschichte
der Nationalökonomik in Deutchland, 1074, I, 23. The Melittotheologia,
Arachnotheologia of later times! A recent attempt in this direction
has been made by <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi>, Nothwendigkeit einer theologischen
Grundage der gesammten Staatswissenschaften und der Staatswirthschaft
insbesondere (1819), i.e., <q>necessity of a theological basis for all political science,
and especially for Political Economy.</q> He divides political science
into two parts: the science of law, and the science of wisdom, embracing
under the latter denomination, politics, Political Economy, etc. Law emanates
from God, as supreme judge; the science of wisdom from God, as our
Supreme Father.</note> and of the juridical method of the
seventeenth century.
</p>

<p>
It would be much more in harmony with the intellectual
tendencies of the time, to adopt a mathematical mode of treatment
in Political Economy, involving, as such a mode of treatment
does, not the matter of the science, but only a formal
<pb n='103'/><anchor id='Pg103'/>
principle. That which is general in Political Economy has,
it must be acknowledged, much that is analogous to the mathematical
sciences. Like the latter, it swarms with abstractions.<note place='foot'>Abstraction
is indulged in on a large scale, when a number of elements
which are always found combined in life, are here separated and examined
apart. It is precisely thus that anatomy proceeds, dissecting each member of
the human frame, separating the bones, ligaments and muscles from one another,
thus becoming the necessary preparatory school to physiology.</note>
Just as there are, strictly speaking, no mathematical
lines or points in nature, and no mathematical lever, there is
nowhere such a thing as production or rent, entirely pure and
simple. The mathematical laws of motion operate in a hypothetical
vacuum, and, where applied, are subjected to important
modifications, in consequence of atmospheric resistance. Something
similar is true of most of the laws of our science; as, for
instance, those in accordance with which the price of commodities
is fixed by the buyer and seller. It also, always supposes
the parties to the contract to be guided only by a sense
of their own best interest, and not to be influenced by secondary
considerations. It is not, therefore, to be wondered at, that
many authors have endeavored to clothe the laws of Political
Economy in algebraic formulæ.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance,
<hi rend='italic'>Canard</hi>, Principes d'Economie politique (1801). Also
<hi rend='italic'>Kröncke</hi>, in several of his works, and
<hi rend='italic'>Count Buquoy</hi>, in his Theorie der Nationalwirthschaft
(1816), p. 333 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Lang</hi>, Grundlinien einer politischen
Arithmetik, Charkow, 1811, and more especially <hi rend='italic'>v. Thünen</hi>,
Der isolirte Staat, vol. I (1842), vol. II, 1850. See my criticism of his method in
<hi rend='italic'>Birnbaum's</hi> Georgika, 1869, 77 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Voa
Thünen's</hi> first volume is an essay towards a geometrical exposition of the
science. See also <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch I, § 154, appendix;
<hi rend='italic'>von Mangoldt</hi>, Grundriss der Volkswirthschaftslehre (1862);
<hi rend='italic'>Cazaux</hi>, Elements d'Economie privée et Principes mathématiques
de la Théorie des Richesses (1838); <hi rend='italic'>F. Fuoco</hi>, Saggi economici
(1827) II, 61 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Walras</hi>, Eléments d'Econ. politique pure
(1874). <hi rend='italic'>Jevons</hi> has recently endeavored to give Political
Economy a mathematical basis by reducing the objects of which it treats to the
calculable feelings of pleasure (+) and pain (-). The duration of a feeling is
treated as an abscissa, its intensity as the ordinate of a curve, and its quantity
as the area. Future feelings are reduced to present ones, by allowing for their
distance, and the uncertainty of their occurrence. All this, however, is rather
curious than scientifically useful.</note> And, indeed, wherever magnitudes
<pb n='104'/><anchor id='Pg104'/>
and the relations of magnitudes to one another are
treated of, it must be possible to subject them to calculation.
Herbart has shown that this is so in the case of psychology;<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Herbart</hi>, Ueber die Möglichkeit und Nothwendigkeit, Mathematik auf
Psychologie anzuwenden; Kleinere Schriften, II, 417.</note>
and all the sciences which treat of national life, especially our
own, are psychological.<note place='foot'>How detrimental it is
to ignore the psychological nature of Political Economy is evident from the
errors of <hi rend='italic'>Karl Marx</hi>, who personifies things in a
manner almost mythological. Thus, according to him, modesty should be
ascribed to a coat which exchanges for a piece of linen, and purpose to the
linen, etc. (Das Kapital, 1867, I, 19, 22, seq.) The greatest fault of this intelligent
but not very acute man, his inability to reduce complicated phenomena
to their constituent elements, is greatly increased by his way of thus
looking at things.</note> But the advantages of the mathematical
mode of expression diminish as the facts to which it is applied
become more complicated. This is true even in the ordinary
psychology of the individual. How much more, therefore,
in the portraying of national life! Here the algebraic
formulæ would soon become so complicated, as to make all
further progress in the operation next to impossible.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité I, introd. Thus, it would be certainly possible
to describe every individual's physiognomy by means of a very complicated
mathematical formula, and yet there is no one who would not prefer
the usual mode of taking pictures. The simple motions of the heavenly
bodies, on the contrary, are always treated mathematically.
(<hi rend='italic'>Lotze</hi>, Allgemeine Physiologie, 322 ff.)</note> Their
employment, especially in a science whose sphere it is, at present,
to increase the number of the facts observed, to make
them the object of exhaustive investigation, and vary the combinations
into which they may be made to enter, is a matter of
great difficulty, if not entirely impossible.<note place='foot'>When
<hi rend='italic'>Fawcett</hi> says that all <q>principles of Political Economy
are describing tendencies instead of actual results</q> (Manual of Political Economy,
1863, p. 90), our method, the historical, would give also the theory of the
latter.</note> For, most assuredly,
as our science has to do with men, it must take them and
treat them as they actually are, moved at once by very different
and non-economic motives, belonging to an entirely definite
people, state, age etc. The abstraction according to which
<pb n='105'/><anchor id='Pg105'/>
all men are by nature the same, different only in consequence
of a difference of education, position in life etc., all equally
well equipped, skillful and free in the matter of economic production
and consumption, is one which, as Ricardo and von
Thünen have shown, must pass as an indispensable stage in
the preparatory labors of political economists. It would be
especially well, when an economic fact is produced by the cooperation
of many different factors, for the investigator to mentally
isolate the factor of which, for the time being, he wishes
to examine the peculiar nature. All other factors should, for
a time, be considered as not operating, and as unchangeable,
and then the question asked, What would be the effect of a
change in the factor to be examined, whether the change be
occasioned by enlarging or diminishing it? But it never should
be lost sight of, that such a one is only an abstraction after all,
for which, not only in the transition to practice, but even in finished
theory, we must turn to the infinite variety of real life.<note place='foot'>This
was lost sight of by most writers during the second half of the
eighteenth century, because they looked upon that equality as the really
oldest condition, and its restoration the ideal to be striven for. How much
of this still clings to the present free-trade school; see in
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Gesch. der N. Œk. in Deutschland, 10, 17 ff.</note>
</p>

<p>
There are two important inquiries in all sciences whose subject
matter is national or social life: 1. What <emph>is</emph>? (What has
been? How did it become so? etc.) 2. What <emph>should be</emph>? The
greater number of political economists have confounded these
questions one with the other, but not all to the same extent.<note place='foot'>Thus,
for instance, <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi> examines, almost exclusively, the actual
condition of things, while the socialists confine themselves, still more exclusively,
to the investigation of how things should be. It has been very usual in Germany
since <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi> wrote, to draw a distinction between theoretical and
practical Political Economy. There are many who think that a good manual
of practical Political Economy, dropping the introduction, demonstrations
etc., would be also a good code of law, of universal application.
<hi rend='italic'>Mercier de la Rivière</hi> has said that he wished to propose an
organization which should be necessarily productive of all the happiness which can be
enjoyed on earth. (Ordre essentiel et naturel (1767), Disc. prélim.) Compare, also,
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, N. Principes, I, ch. 2.</note>
</p>

<pb n='106'/><anchor id='Pg106'/>

<p>
When a careful distinction is made between them, the contrast
between the (realistic) physiological or historical, and the idealistic
methods is brought out.<note place='foot'>The word method is used
in an essentially different sense, when the inquiry
is, whether the inductive or deductive method is followed in Political
Economy. <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi> calls Political Economy, and,
indeed, all <q>sociology,</q> a concrete deductive science, whose
<hi rend='italic'>a priori</hi> conclusions, based on the laws of
human nature, must be tested by experience, either by comparing them with
the concrete phenomena themselves, or with their emperical laws. It, in
this, resembles astronomy and physics. (System of Logic VI, ch. 9. Essays
on some unsettled questions of Political E., No. 5.) According to this,
an economic fact can be said to have received a scientific explanation only
when its deductive and inductive explanations have met and agreed. <q>Only
those principles which, after they have been obtained by the one, are confirmed
by the other method, can be said to have a scientific basis.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>von
Mangoldt</hi>, Grundriss, 8.) While I agree to this view, it seems necessary to
me to mention points wherein caution is necessary: A. Even the deductive
explanation of economic facts is based on observation, namely, on the
self-observation of the person accounting for them, who, consciously or unconsciously,
must always inquire: If I had experienced or accomplished the
same fact, what should I have thought, willed and felt? The man who cannot
translate himself into the souls of others, will give a wrong explanation
of most economic facts. In the question, for instance, of the determination
of the price of an article, the person who can look into the mind of one of
the contracting parties only, will give a one-sided explanation of the facts.
B. Moreover, every explanation, that is, satisfactory connection of the fact
seeking explanation with other facts which are already clear, can be only
provisional. The wider our horizon grows, the deeper should our solution
of all questions become. A hundred years hence, should science increase in
the mean time, the solutions which are satisfactory to us will be looked
down upon by our posterity, as the speculations of our fathers antecedent to
Adam Smith's time are looked down upon by us.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXIII. The Idealistic Method.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXIII.</head>
<head>The Idealistic Method.</head>

<p>
Any one who has read a goodly number of idealistic works
treating of public economy (the state, law etc.) cannot have
failed to be struck by the enormous differences, and even contradictions,
as to what theorizers have considered desirable and
<pb n='107'/><anchor id='Pg107'/>
necessary. There is scarcely an important point which the
highest authorities may not be cited for or against. We must
not close our eyes to this fact. <q>The giddiness that comes
from contemplating the depths of knowledge is the beginning
of philosophy, as the god Thaumas was, according to the fable,
the father of Iris.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Plato.</hi>) In a precisely similar manner,
the student of public economy (politics, the philosophy of
law etc.) must familiarize himself with the variations that have
taken place in what men, at different periods of history, have
required of the state and public economy, until he is lost in
wonder at the contemplation.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXIV. The Idealistic Method. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXIII.</head>
<head>The Idealistic Method. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
It is impossible to fail to notice at once that those ideal descriptions
which have enjoyed great fame and exerted great
influence, depart very little from the real conditions of the public
economy (of the state, law etc.) surrounding their authors.<note place='foot'><foreign
lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Tanquam e vinculis sermocinantur</foreign>, says
<hi rend='italic'>Bacon</hi> (De Dignit. et Augm. Scient., III, 3), of those who have
written in a not non-practical way on the laws. <hi rend='italic'>Hugo</hi>, also
(Naturrecht, 1819, p. 9), calls attention to the resemblance of the so-called laws
of nature, to the positive law in force at the time. As to political idealism, see
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>: De historicæ doctrinæ apud sophistas majores
vestigiis (Gött. 1838, 26 ff.). The only exceptions to this rule are the eclectics,
who form their own system from the blossoms of all foreign ones, a system,
indeed, without root, and which therefore must soon wither.</note>
This is not mere chance. The power of great theorizers, as,
indeed, of all great men, lies, as a rule, in this, that they satisfy
the want of their own time to an unusual extent; and it is the
peculiar task of theorizers to give expression to this want
with scientific clearness, and to justify it with scientific depth.
But the real wants of a people will, in the long run, be satisfied
in life,<note place='foot'>In this place, naturally, such an assertion can
be made only as a programme to be carried out, the proof whereof is to be
sought in the rest of the work. By <q>the people,</q> we do not mean the
governed, to the exclusion of the governing classes, but both classes
together. We attach to the expression the most extensive meaning possible.
We do not limit it to the present generation, but intend it to cover all
the generations from the beginning of a people's history to its end.</note>
so far as this is possible to the moral imperfection
<pb n='108'/><anchor id='Pg108'/>
of man. We should at least be on our guard when we
hear it said that whole nations have been forced into an <q>unnatural</q>
course by priests, tyrants and cavilers. For, to leave
human freedom and divine Providence out of consideration
entirely, how is such a thing possible? The supposed tyrants
are generally part and parcel of the people themselves; all
their resources are derived from the people. They must have
been new Archimedeses standing outside of their own world.
(Compare, however, <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § 263.)
</p>

<p>
It is true, that if the result of the growth of generations be
to gradually produce a different people, these different men
may require different institutions. Then a struggle arises between
the old and those of the younger generation; the former
wish to retain what has been tested by time, the latter to seek
for the satisfaction of their new wants by new means. As the
sea always oscillates between the flowing and ebbing of the
tides, so the life of nations, between periods of repose and of
crisis: periods of repose, when existing forms answer to the
real substance of things, and of crisis, when the changed substance
or contents seeks to build up a new form for itself.
Such crises are called <hi rend='italic'>reforms</hi> when they are effected in a
peaceful way, and in accordance with positive law. When
accomplished in violation of law, they are called revolutions.<note place='foot'>The
custom, which has become general, of calling all democratic movements,
and them only, revolutions (thus <hi rend='italic'>Stahl</hi>: Was ist Revolution? 1852,
and many other writers of an entirely opposite tendency, especially in France),
is not warranted. It is true that democratic (and imperial) revolutions are
more frequent than others in our times, just as aristocratic revolutions were
in the middle ages, and monarchical at the beginning of modern history.
The essence of revolution, however, is in the operation of change contrary to
positive law, acknowledged as such by the consciousness of the people.</note>
</p>

<p>
That every revolution, it matters not how great the need of
the change produced by it, is as such an enormous evil, a serious,
<pb n='109'/><anchor id='Pg109'/>
and sometimes, fatal disease of the body politic, is self-evident.
The injury to morals which the spectacle of victorious
wrong almost always produces can be healed, as a rule, only
in the following generation. Where law has been once trampled
on, the <q>right of the stronger</q> will prevail; and the
stronger is, to some extent, the most unscrupulous and reckless
in the choice of the means to be employed. Hence, the
well-known fact, that in revolutionary times the worst so frequently
remain the victors. The counter-revolution which is
wont to follow on the heels of revolution, and with a corresponding
violence, is a compensation only to the most shortsighted.
It allows the disease, the familiarizing of the people
with the infringement of law, to continue, until the hitherto
sound parts are attacked. Hence, a people should, if they
would have it go well with them, in the changes in the form
of things which they make, take as their model Time, whose
reforms are the surest and most irresistible, but, at the same
time, as Bacon says, so gradual that they cannot be seen or
observed at any one moment. It is true, that, as all that is
great is difficult, so also is the carrying out of uninterrupted
reform. Its carrying out, indeed, supposes two things: a constitution
so wisely planned as to keep the doors open both to
the disappearing institutions of the past and to the coming
institutions of the future; and, among all classes of the people,
a moral control of themselves, so absolute that, no matter what
the inconvenience, or how great the sacrifice, legal ways shall
alone be used. In this manner, two of the greatest and apparently
most contradictory wants of every legal or moral
person, the want of uninterrupted continuity and that of free
development, may be satisfied.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='110'/><anchor id='Pg110'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXV. The Idealistic Method. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXV.</head>
<head>The Idealistic Method. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
It is doubtless true that all economic laws, and all economic
institutions are made for the people, not the people for such laws
and institutions. Their mutability is, therefore, by no means
such an evil as mankind should endeavor to remove, but is
wholesome and laudable, so far as it runs parallel with the
transformation of the people, and the changes which their
wants have undergone.<note place='foot'>Compare, especially, the first pages of
<hi rend='italic'>Sir J. Stewart</hi>, Principles of Polit. Economy.</note>
Hence, there is no reason why the
most various ideal systems should contradict one another. Any
one of them may be right, but, of course, only for one people
and one age. In this case, the only error would be, if they
should claim to be universally applicable. There can no more
be an economic ideal adapted to the various wants of every
people, than a garment which should fit every individual.
The leading-strings of children and the staff of age would
be great annoyances to the man. <q>Reason becomes nonsense
and beneficence a torment.</q> Hence, whoever would
elaborate the ideal of the best public economy&mdash;and the greater
number of political economists have really wished to do this&mdash;should,
if he would be perfectly true, and at the same time practical,
place in juxta position as many different ideals as there
are different types of people.<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>Colton</hi>,
Public Economy of the United States, p. 28, who, indeed, unwarrantedly, refers to
the whole of Political Economy, what properly belongs to its precepts.</note>
He would, moreover, have
to revise his work every few years; for, in proportion as
a people change, and new wants originate, the economic
ideal suitable to them must change also. But it is impossible
to accomplish this on so large a scale. Besides, to appreciate
the present thus instantaneously, and to perfectly feel the pulse
<pb n='111'/><anchor id='Pg111'/>
of time thus uninterruptedly, requires a species of talent different
from what even the most distinguished scientists are
wont to possess; talents of an entirely practical nature, such as
become a great minister of the interior or of finance. And it is
an acknowledged fact, that even the cleverest of such practicioners,
as the younger Pitt said of himself, generally feel
their way instinctively, and do not see it with the clearness
necessary to indicate it to others.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXVI. The Historical Method&mdash;The Anatomy And
Physiology Of Public Economy.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXVI.'/>
<anchor id="Section_26"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXVI.</head>
<head>The Historical Method&mdash;The Anatomy And Physiology
Of Public Economy.</head>

<p>
We refuse entirely to lend ourselves in theory to the construction
of such ideal systems. Our aim is simply to describe
man's economic nature and economic wants, to investigate the
laws and the character of the institutions which are adapted to
the satisfaction of these wants, and the greater or less amount
of success by which they have been attended.<note place='foot'><foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>Je n'impose rien, je ne propose même rien: j'expose.</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>Ch. Dunoyer</hi>). <hi rend='italic'>Cherbuliez</hi>,
Précis de la Science économique, 1862, p. 7 ff., has exaggerated this
idea in a strangely non-practical manner. That the historical method does not
differ essentially from the statistical as recently recommended, see
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Gesch. der Nat. Œk., 1035 seq.</note> Our task is,
therefore, so to speak, the anatomy and physiology of social
or national economy!
</p>

<p>
These are matters to be found within the domain of reality,
susceptible of demonstration or refutation by the ordinary operations
of science; entirely true or entirely false, and, therefore,
in the former case, not liable to become obsolete. We
proceed after the manner of the investigator of nature. We,
too, have our dissecting knife and microscope, and we have
an advantage over the student of nature in this, that the self-observation
of the body is exceedingly limited, while that of
mind is almost unlimited. There are other respects, however,
in which he has the advantage over us. When he wishes to
<pb n='112'/><anchor id='Pg112'/>
study a given species, he may make a hundred or a thousand
experiments, and use a hundred or a thousand individuals for
his purpose. Hence, he can easily control each separate observation,
and distinguish the exception from the rule. But,
how many nations are there which we can make use of for
purposes of comparison? Their very fewness makes it all the
more imperative to compare them all. Doubtless, comparison
cannot supply the place of observation; but observation may
be thus rendered more thorough, many-sided, and richer in
the number of its points of view. Interested alike in the differences
and resemblances, we must first form our rules from
the latter, consider the former as the exceptions, and then endeavor
to explain them. (<hi rend='italic'>Infra</hi>, § 266).
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXVII. Advantages Of The Historical Or Physiological
Method.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXVII.</head>
<head>Advantages Of The Historical Or Physiological
Method.</head>

<p>
The thorough application of this method will do away with
a great number of controversies on important questions.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, II, 222.</note> Men
are as far removed from being devils as from being angels.
We meet with few who are only guided by ideal motives, but
with few, also, who hearken only to the voice of egotism, and
care for nothing but themselves. It may, therefore, be assumed,
that any view current on certain tangible interests
which concern man very nearly, and which has been shared
by great parties and even by whole peoples for generations, is
not based only on ignorance or a perverse love of wrong. The
error consists more frequently in applying measures wholesome
and even absolutely necessary under certain circumstances, to
circumstances entirely different. And here, a thorough insight
into the conditions of the measure suffices to compose the
differences between the two parties. Once the natural laws
of Political Economy are sufficiently known and recognized,
<pb n='113'/><anchor id='Pg113'/>
all that is needed, in any given instance, is more exact and
reliable statistics of the fact involved, to reconcile all party
controversies on questions of the politics of public economy,
so far, at least, as these controversies arise from a difference
of opinion. It may be that science may never attain to this,
in consequence of the new problems which are ever arising
and demanding a solution. It may be, too, that in the greater
number of party controversies, the opposed purposes of the
parties play a more important part even than the opposed
views. Be this as it may, it is necessary, especially in an age
as deeply agitated as our own, when every good citizen is in
duty bound to ally himself to party, that every honest party-man
should seek to secure, amid the ocean of ephemeral opinions,
a firm island of scientific truth, as universally recognized
as truth as are the principles of mathematical physics by
physicians of the most various schools.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXVIII. Advantages Of The Historical Method.
(Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXVIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXVIII.</head>
<head>Advantages Of The Historical Method.
(Continued.)</head>

<p>
Another characteristic feature of the historical method is
that it does away with the feeling of self-sufficiency, and the
braggadocio which cause most men to ridicule what they do
not understand, and the higher to look down with contempt on
lower civilizations. Whoever is acquainted with the laws of
the development of the plant, cannot fail to see in the seed the
germ of its growth, and in its flower, the herald of decay. If
there were inhabitants of the moon, and one of them should
visit our earth, and find children and grown people side by
side, while ignorant of the laws of human development, would
he not look upon the most beautiful child as a mere monster,
with an enormous head, with arms and legs of stunted growth,
useless genitals, and destitute of reason? The folly of such a
judgment would be obvious to every one; and yet we meet
with thousands like it on the state and the public economy of
<pb n='114'/><anchor id='Pg114'/>
nations when in lower stages of civilization, and this, even
among the most distinguished writers.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ad.
Müller</hi>, an essentially mediæval mind, is guilty of this same braggadocio
in an opposite direction, when he calls the <q>present with its political
disorders simply an intermediate state,&mdash;the transmission of the natural or
unconscious wisdom of the fathers, through the inquisitiveness of their children
to the rational acknowledgment of that wisdom by their grandsons.</q>
(Theorie des Geldes, 1816, pref.)</note>
</p>

<p>
We may, indeed, make a critical comparison of different
forms, each of which answers perfectly to its object or contents;
but such a comparison can possess historical objectivity,
only when it is based on a correct view of the peculiar
course of development followed by the people in question.
</p>

<p>
The forms of the period of maturity may be considered the
most perfect; earlier forms as the immature, and the later as
those of the age of decline.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance, it
can not be said that a model university is better than a model public
school; and yet the former is higher, because the age to which it is adapted
is doubtless intellectually higher.</note> But it is a matter of the greatest
difficulty, accurately to determine the culminating point of
a people's civilization. The old man believes, as a rule, that
the times are growing worse, because he is no longer in a
way to utilize them; the young man, as a rule, that they are
growing better, because he hopes to turn them to account.
It is, however, always a purely empirical question; and in the
solution of it, the observer's eye may acquire a singular acuteness
by the comparative study of as many nations as possible,
especially of those which have already passed away.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Knies</hi> (Polit. Œk., 256 seq.) remarks, that it would be a great
mistake, and it is the mistake of the majority, to consider what has been achieved or
striven for in the present, as the absolute <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>non plus ultra</foreign>, and thus to look upon all
future generations as called upon to play the parts of apes and ruminators; a
remark worthy to be taken to heart.</note>
</p>

<p>
Could anyone contemplate the history of mankind as a
a whole, of which the histories of individual nations are but the
parts, the successive steps in the evolution of humanity would
of course afford him a similar objective rule for all these
<pb n='115'/><anchor id='Pg115'/>
points in which whole peoples permanently differ from one
another.<note place='foot'>I have, myself, no doubt, that up to the
present time, mankind, as a whole, has, from the beginning of historical knowledge,
always advanced. In individual cases, their movement has been interrupted by so many
pauses, and even by so many occasional retrogressions, that great care must be taken
not to infer superior excellence from mere subsequency.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXIX. The Practical Character Of The Historical
Method In Political Economy.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXIX.</head>
<head>The Practical Character Of The Historical
Method In Political Economy.</head>

<p>
Before I close, I must refer to a possible objection which
may be made to historical or physiological Political Economy:
that it may indeed be taught, but that it cannot be a practical
science. If it be assumed that those principles only are practical,
which may be applied immediately by every reader, in
practice, this work must disclaim all pretensions to that title.
I doubt very much if, in this sense, there is a single science
susceptible of a practical exposition.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Buckle</hi>
writes of people whose knowledge is about limited to that which
they see going on under their eyes, and who are called practical, only because
of their ignorance; and he adds that, although they assume to despise theory,
they are in fact slaves of theory, of others' theories.</note> Genuine practitioners,
who know life with its thousands of relations by experience,
will be the first to grant that such a collection of prescriptions,
when the question is the knowledge and guidance of men,
would be misleading and dangerous in proportion as such
prescriptions were positive and apodictic, that is non-practical
and doctrinarian.
</p>

<p>
Our endeavor has been, not to write a practical book, but
to train our readers to be practical. To this end, we have
sought to describe the laws of nature which man cannot control,
but, at most, only utilize. We call the attention of the
reader to the different points of view, from which every economic
fact must be observed, to do justice to every claim. We
would like to accustom the reader, when he is examining the
<pb n='116'/><anchor id='Pg116'/>
most insignificant politico-economical fact, never to lose sight
of the whole, not only of public economy but of national life.
We are very strongly of the opinion, that only he can form a
correct judgment and defend his views against all objections,
on such questions as to where, how and when certain liens
and charges, monopolies, privileges, services etc., should be
abolished, who fully understands why they were once imposed
or introduced. Especially, do we not desire to impress a certain
number of rules of action on those who have confided
themselves to our guidance, after having first demonstrated
their excellence. Our highest ambition is to put our readers
in a way to discover such rules of direction for themselves,
after they have conscientiously weighed all the facts, untrammeled
by any earthly authority whatever.<note place='foot'>Compare this whole
chapter with <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Leben Werk und Zeitalter des
Thukydides, 1842, pp. 25, 239-275; <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Grundries
zu Vorlesungen über die Staatswirthschaft nach geschichtlicher Methode, 1843,
preface; <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi> Geschichte der Nat. Œk. in Deutchland
(1874), 882 f., 1017 seq., and D. Vierteljahrsschrift, ff. See also
<hi rend='italic'>J. Kautz's</hi> learned and accurate Theorie und Geschichte
der N. Œkonomik, vol. I, 1858, II, 1860. I find no real contradiction between
the views here expressed and those of <hi rend='italic'>Kautz</hi>, when he (I, pp.
313 ff.) introduces history and ethico-practical reason with their ideals as
sources of Political Economy, to the end that the science may be something
more than simply a picture, namely, a model of economic life. Apart from
the fact that it is only the ethico-practical reason that can understand history
at all, the ideals of a period constitute one of the most important elements of
its history. The aspirations of an age find in them their best expression.
The historical political, economist as such, is certainly not disinclined to
form plans of reform, nor can it be said that he is not adapted to the performance
of such a task. Only, he will scarcely recommend his reforms as
absolutely better than what they are intended to supplant. He will confine
himself to showing that there is a want which may, probably, be best satisfied
by what he proposes. See <hi rend='italic'>Sartorius</hi>, Einladungsblätter zu
Vorlesungen über die Politik, 1793.</note><note place='foot'><q>There is a book
which youth may use to grow old, and the old to remain young&mdash;History.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>K. S. Zaccharia</hi>).</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='119'/><anchor id='Pg119'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Book I. The Production Of Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Book I.'/>
<head type='sub'>Book I.</head>
<head>The Production Of Goods.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter I. Factors Of Production.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter I.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter I.</head>
<head>Factors Of Production.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXX. Meaning Of Production.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_30"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXX.</head>
<head>Meaning Of Production.</head>

<p>
To create new matter is more than it is given to man to do.
Hence, by the term production, in its widest sense, we mean
simply the bringing forth of new goods&mdash;the discovery of new
utilities, the change or transformation of already existing
goods into new utilities,<note place='foot'>Especially when natural
science begins to be <q>a practical science.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>L.
Stein</hi>).</note> the creation of means for the satisfaction
of human wants, out of the aggregate of matter originally
present in the world. (<hi rend='italic'>Producere!</hi>) We confine ourselves,
however, in this to economic goods, as defined in § <ref target="Section_2">2</ref>.
In a secondary and more limited sense, production is an increase
of resources, in so far as the goods produced satisfy a greater
human want, than those employed in the production itself.<note place='foot'>The
difference between the broader and narrower sense of production,
corresponds essentially with that of gross and net income (§ 145). Compare
also §§ 206, 211 ff.</note><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Von Mangoldt</hi>
distinguishes the coming into existence of free values of
the production undertaken for an economic purpose. (Grundriss, 9.)</note><note
place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Gioja</hi>, Nuovo Prospetto delle Scienze
economiche (1815), I, 49 ff. Besides positive production, there is
a latent production, which prevents the decay of goods. It is
not possible to make as exact an estimate of the latter as of the
former; and much more depends in the latter case than in the former
on continuity and proper extension. Hence, latent production is especially a
state concern. (<hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, Telegraph als Verkehrsmittel, 1857,
232.)</note>
</p>

<pb n='120'/><anchor id='Pg120'/>

<p>
It would, however, be an error to suppose, that the creation
of certain utilities for the producer himself, or for others,
constitutes the only end of economic production. The
more perfect economic production becomes, the greater grows
the pleasure the producer feels in his products, which pleasure
is at once the effect and the cause of his success. Hence,
production is to a great extent its own end. That this is
so in the case of artists is well known. <q>If you want only
progeny from her, a mortal can beget them as well. Let
him who rejoices in the goddess, not seek in her the woman,</q>
says Schiller. There is not a really clever workman but has
something artistic in his mode of production. And even the
meanest productive activity, provided it is neither over-driven
nor misdirected, must of itself exert a good influence on the
physical and moral development or preservation of the producer.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.<note place='foot'>See <hi
rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, in the Tübinger Univ. Programm, September 27, 1862, on
the disastrous effect on the community of idleness. The leading of a happy
life the Greeks called very appropriately, εὐπράττειν (<hi
rend='italic'>Garve</hi>).</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXXI. The Factors Of Production.&mdash;External
Nature.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXI.</head>
<head>The Factors Of Production.&mdash;External Nature.<note place='foot'>We
use the expression <q>external nature</q> through the whole of this work
in contradistinction not only to the soul, but also to man's body, designating
his entire physico-intellectual activity by the term <q>labor-force</q>
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Arbeits kraft</foreign>).</note></head>

<p>
The division of natural forces which formerly obtained, into
organic, chemical and mechanical, is of no great importance
in Political Economy. The tendency is more and more to resolve
organic forces partly into chemical and partly into mechanical.
Between mechanical and chemical forces, again, the
boundary is not fixed, heat being always capable of producing
motion, and motion always of producing heat. Hence, it is
all the more important for us to find a division of the economic
gifts (matter, forces<note place='foot'>By the expression <q>natural forces,</q>
we designate the economically useful changes of matter,
changes of place as well as of composition, which are
made without man's cooperation; for instance, the gigantic machinery which
supplies the greater part of mankind with water to drink, for domestic and
other purposes&mdash;the evaporation of the sea, the formation of clouds, rain,
springs, rivers etc. See <hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>, Harmonies, 277.
Thus the sun's rays are indirectly the cause, not only of vegetation, but
also of all wind and steam forces.</note> and relations) of external nature, into such
<pb n='121'/><anchor id='Pg121'/>
as are capable of acquiring exchange value, and such as are
not. (See § <ref target="Section_5">5</ref>.)
</p>

<p>
A. Those gifts of nature which, because they cannot be
appropriated by any one, or which at least are inexhaustible
as compared with the wants of man, and therefore never have
a direct value in exchange, belong either to the class of <hi rend='italic'>free</hi>
goods, in the fullest sense of the word, as, for instance, sunlight
and the atmosphere (<hi rend='italic'>supra</hi>, §
<ref target="Section_5">5</ref>);<note place='foot'>Spite of this <q>freedom,</q>
it may well happen that these gifts of nature can
be utilized, in many cases, only on condition of some expenditure. The photographer
can compel the sunlight to work for him only by means of a camera
obscura, and the smithy the atmosphere, only by means of a bellows. But
neither will ever successfully make an item, in their accounts with their customers,
of the services of the sun or air.</note> or they constitute, by reason
of their peculiar and intransmissible connection with the
whole country, an essential element of the national resources.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXXII. External Nature.&mdash;The
Sea.&mdash;Climate.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXII.</head>
<head>External Nature.&mdash;The Sea.&mdash;Climate.</head>

<p>
To the last category belongs, for instance, the sea, the only
natural boundary of a country, which from a military point
of view, constitutes a protection to it, without, at the same
time, disturbing peaceful traffic. (<hi rend='italic'>Riedel.</hi>) Here, also belong
ocean currents, especially when uniformly supported by
regular winds,<note place='foot'>The most important ocean currents may be explained by
two causes: the flowing of the water from the polar seas to the equator (polar current),
and the revolution of the earth about its axis (equinoctial current); besides
which, there are the reflex currents produced by the horizontal form of the
coast-lands. Thanks to these natural ocean highways, England is nearer to
almost all the important mercantile coasts of the world by 300 geographical
miles than the Eastern States of the American Union. The only exception
is the Atlantic coast of America north of the Equator. North Americans
to pass the line, or to double one of the two great capes, are obliged first to
traverse the ocean as far as the Azores. On the other hand, the western
coast of South America is very widely separated from Mexico, for instance,
by its ocean currents. The colonization of America by Europe, instead of
by China, is a consequence of the direction of ocean currents, as is also the
fact that America has now the fairest prospect of influencing the civilization
of China and Japan. What an influence the warm gulf stream has on the
mild climate of north-western Europe!</note> the ebb and flow of the tides, which
constitute
<pb n='122'/><anchor id='Pg122'/>
a piece of commercial machinery of the very greatest
importance, particularly when they affect the waters of rivers
to a great distance.<note place='foot'>While the Mississippi has no ebb or
flow whatever, the influence of the ocean is felt in the Hudson, which is
60 geographical miles long, a distance of 29 miles from its mouth.</note>
In this age, when the love of travel is
so great and so universal, what prices are paid in many
places by strangers for the beauty of a landscape, to its
owner.
</p>

<p>
Special mention should be here made of climate, and of its
heat or moisture. The lines called isothermal, that is, lines of
equal annual heat, are, therefore, of greatest importance to
public economy, because the <q>zones of production</q> depend
mainly on them.<note place='foot'>Thus, <hi rend='italic'>A. Young</hi>, Travels
in France I, 293 ff., has defined, with approximate accuracy, the limits
within which the vine, maize and the olive grow. And so
<hi rend='italic'>von Cancrin</hi>, Dorpater Jahrbuch IV, 1, distinguishes the ice
zone, the reindeer-moss (a lichen on which the reindeer live in winter) zone, the forest
zone, the zone within the limits of which cattle are raised; that in which the
culture of rye begins, that in which it becomes permanent; the wheat, fruit-tree,
vine, maize, olive, sugar cane and silk-worm zones. The United States
are divided into cattle-raising, wheat-raising, cotton-raising, rice-raising and
sugar-raising zones. Even in Europe, beyond the 60th parallel of north latitude,
wheat can scarcely be cultivated; the polar limits of rye raising extend,
at most, six or seven degrees farther. Towards the north, barley extends
sometimes as far as the 70th degree. Here agriculture almost ceases, and
the inhabitants are compelled to confine themselves to animal substances for
food. On the other hand, these three cereals are not adapted to a tropical
climate, while the bread-fruit tree, for instance, does not thrive at more than
22 degrees from the Equator, nor the banana at more than 35. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Grisebach</hi>, Die Vegetation der Erde nach ihrer klimatischen
Anordnung. II, 1871.</note> However, we are concerned here, not only
<pb n='123'/><anchor id='Pg123'/>
with the average temperature of the whole year, but especially
with the distribution of heat among the several parts of
the day and the different seasons of the year, and the maximum
summer heat and winter cold (the isothermal and iso-cheimenal
lines). Coast lands are wont to have a milder winter
and a cooler summer than continental ones with an equal average
yearly heat. This produces a great difference in vegetation,
because there are a great many plants which can endure
the winter's cold very well, but require a hot summer; and
<hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>.<note place='foot'>Thus rye and wheat thrive in
many parts of Siberia (Iakutzk) at an annual temperature of - 7.50, while
in Iceland no cereals ripen at an annual temperature of + 4°. But
in the former place the summer heat is + 16.2°; the winter cold,
- 39.2°; in Iceland, + 12° and - 1.6°. In England, the myrtle,
laurel, camelia and fuchsia stand the winter well; while the vine no where
ripens. On the other hand, Astrakan and Hungary are vine growing countries,
although the former is as cold in winter as North Cape, and although the
cold is more intense in Hungary than in the Faroe Islands, where neither
the oak nor the beech grow any longer. No good wine is produced on the
western coast of France, north of 47° 20' north latitude; in Champagne,
north of 49°, or in the Rheingau, north of 51°. In Norway, the average
heat is greater on the coast than in the heart of the country where, however,
grain ripens, while it does not on the coast; for the mildness of the winter,
no matter how great, can make no compensation for the want of heat. On
the other hand, the cattle on the coast can remain much longer out of doors,
and the sea seldom freezes in such a way as to interfere with the fisheries.
<hi rend='italic'>Blom</hi>, Norwegen I, 39. <hi rend='italic'>Boussingnault</hi>
(Economie rurale considérée dans ses Rapports avec la Chimie, II)
has made some interesting attempts to calculate by a mathematical
process the amount of heat necessary to vegetable, during the period
of vegetation. Thus, for instance, wheat requires about 12°
(Réaumur) of heat during 140 days; that is, nearly 140 x 12° = 1680° Réaumur.
In Venezuela, the sugar cane requires a longer time to grow in a higher and
therefore cooler position than in a lower and warmer, and the length of time
required is in proportion to the height.</note> Were it not for this
fact, in connection with the winter-sleep of plants, a
large portion of the north would be entirely uninhabitable.
Besides, the temperature of a place does not depend
exclusively on its latitude, or on its height
<pb n='124'/><anchor id='Pg124'/>
above the sea-level.<note place='foot'>Hence it is that the isothermal lines
are not parallel with the equator or with one another. The greater number
of these have two northern and two southern summits; the former on
the western coasts of Europe and America, and the latter in eastern
North America, and in the interior of Asia.</note> The humidity of the climate is,
as a rule, great in proportion to the quantity of water in its neighborhood,
and to the height of its temperature; although, for instance,
in Europe, the number of rainy days increases, the
further we advance towards the north.<note place='foot'>The quantity of rain which
falls every year is, at St. Petersburg and Pesth, from 16 to 17 inches; at Berlin
19, Mannheim 21, Tübingen 26: in the interior of France 16-24; on the French coast
25, on the eastern coast of England 24, on the western coast 35, in Milan 36,
Genoa 44, on the coast of most tropical lands 70-120. On the political-economical
influences of most climates, see <hi rend='italic'>Gobbi</hi>, Ueber die Abhängikeit
der Populationskräfte von den einfachen Grundfstoffen, 1842.</note> Although the distance
of a place from the equator and its height above the
level of the sea have, in many respects, a similar effect (vertical,
horizontal isothermal lines and zones of production), mountainous
regions are uniformly distinguished by a greater
degree of humidity, which makes them better adapted for
pasturage and forest-culture. But the flora of a locality, being
the resultant of all its conditions, affords us a much better
criterion of the value of the climate for economic purposes,
than the most accurate thermometric observations. Other
things being equal, the productive force of nature operates,
doubtless, with most energy, in warm climates. The more
remote a country is from the equator, the more is its fertility
confined to its lowest parts.<note place='foot'>The snow limit
at Mageröe in Norway is 2,200, in Iceland 2,900, in the
northern Ural 4,500, in the Alps 8,200, in the Caucasus 10,400, and Quito
14,850 feet high. Hence it is that mountainous countries which produce
nothing in the north, make magnificent vineyards in warmer countries.</note>
Greater heat will, as a rule, ripen the same product sooner,
and thus permit the same land to be used several times in
the same year.<note place='foot'>In central Germany, even a second crop can
be produced after the corn harvest. In Arabia, the same seed produces three harvests,
because the grain which falls at the time of harvesting to the ground, germinates
immediately and suffices for new seed. (<hi rend='italic'>Niebuhr</hi>, Beschreibung,
154.)</note> Each individual
<pb n='125'/><anchor id='Pg125'/>
harvest, as a rule, is more abundant,<note place='foot'>Thus in the northern states
of the American union, wheat yields a return of only from four to five times the
amount sown; in France, 5-6 times (<hi rend='italic'>Lavoisier</hi>): in Chili,
12 times; in northern Mexico, 17 times; in Peru, 18 and 20 times; in southern
Mexico, 25 and even 35 times; in Germany, maize seed yields at best one hundred
fold, while in the torrid zone there is a return of from three hundred to four
hundred fold, generally.</note> and the products better in
many respects. The fruit, for instance, and wine, contain
more sugar,<note place='foot'> Andalusian corn produces in the mill only one-half as much
bran-waste as Baltic wheat produces. <hi rend='italic'>Bourgoing</hi>, Tableau de
l'Espagne, II, 155. Baltic wheat contains 6-7 per cent, of azote, and Algerian, 20-25
Per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>Kabsch</hi>, Pflanzenleben der Erde, 1865.)</note>
and oleaginous plants contain more oil. Lastly,
since nature in warm countries is so much more generous, it
may be utilized by man with less regard for consequences.
There is less need of extensive woods, of large winter supplies,
especially for animals;<note place='foot'>In Europe the blossoming season is retarded
four days for each degree of northern latitude. (<hi rend='italic'>Schübler</hi>.)
As we advance towards the north, the difference becomes less noticeable, but more so
as we go towards the south. In mountainous countries a similar difference is
observable, produced by a like climatic influence. It is from about 10 to 12 days,
for a height of from 500 to 600 feet. (<hi rend='italic'>Wolff</hi>, Naturgesetzliche
Grundlagen des Ackerbaues I, p. 332 ff.) In the cantons, in which the Swiss
confederation had its origin, the pasturage of the Alps lasts generally thirteen
weeks, but in the higher Alps it lasts only from six to seven weeks.
(<hi rend='italic'>Businger</hi>, C. Unterwalden., p. 52.)</note> fewer
buildings are demanded, and there is also less demand for human and brute labor, since
the work of plowing, sowing etc., extends over a greater portion
of the year.<note place='foot'>In central Italy, winter wheat may be sown in
October, November or December; summer wheat, in February or March.
(<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, Tableau de l'Agriculture Toscane, p. 35.)
In Judæa, it was possible to harvest figs ten months in the year.
(<hi rend='italic'>Joseph</hi>, Bell. Jud., Ill, p. 10.) On the other hand,
there is Jemtland, where the peasant in many places surrounds the northern
portion of his cornfield with fagots, and lights them in August when the
north wind blows, to protect his land from the frost; and where the expression
<q>green years</q> is used to designate those in which the harvest has to be
reaped before it is ripe. (<hi rend='italic'>Forsell</hi>, Statistik von Schweden,
24.) In the valuation made of the lands of the kingdom of Saxony, for assessment purposes,
the cost of supporting a yoke of oxen in the lowest country is estimated at
only three-fourths of what it is in the highest localities, because in the former,
200 work days can be calculated upon in the year, in the latter only 159.
In central Russia, the greater part of the labor of agriculture, sowing and
harvesting, has to be finished within the space of four months. In central
Germany, they are spread over seven months. Other things being equal,
seven horses and ploughmen are needed in Russia where only four are called
for in central Germany, (<hi rend='italic'>von Haxthausen</hi>, Studien I, 174.)
On the impediments put in the way of agriculture by the climate of eastern
Prussia, see <hi rend='italic'>Meitzen</hi>, Boden und landwirthsch. Verhältnisse
des preussichen Staats, 1868, I, Abschn., 6.</note>
It is true, on the other hand, that also the
<pb n='126'/><anchor id='Pg126'/>
destructive force of nature is greater in warmer than in colder
countries. (§ 209.)<note place='foot'><q>In both hemispheres, the zone in
which the temperature decreases most rapidly lies between the 40th and
50th degrees of north latitude. This circumstance must have a happy
influence on the culture and industry of the nation inhabiting the neighborhood
of that zone. Here is the point where the regions of the
vine touch upon those of the olive. Nowhere in the world, do
the products of the vegetable kingdom, and the most varied wonders
of agriculture, follow with such rapidity on one another. The great variety
of products enlivens the commerce and increases the industrial activity
of agricultural nations.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>.) It is
true, however, that tropical countries possess, also, in their mountainous
parts, the <hi rend='italic'>tierra fria</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>templada</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>caliente</hi>, superimposed the one on the other.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXXIII. External Nature.&mdash;Gifts Of Nature With
Value In Exchange.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_33"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXIII.</head>
<head>External Nature.&mdash;Gifts Of Nature With Value In
Exchange.</head>

<p>
B. Those gifts of external nature which may become objects
of private property, and at the same time possess sufficient
relative scarcity to give them value in exchange, are
either movable, and exhaustible in a given place, or firmly
connected with the land. The first category embraces, for
instance, such wild animals and plants as serve some useful
purpose, minerals, above all, fossil combustible matter<note place='foot'>The
aggregate coal supply of Great Britain (1869) was 2,180 millions cwt.;
of Belgium (1862), 207 millions; of France (1868) 256 millions; of Prussia
(1870), 600 millions, of Austria (1870), including brown lignite coal, 158 millions;
of Russia (1868), only a little over 9 millions. The great English coal
field, in the counties of Durham and Northumberland, embraces 732 English
square miles; that of South Wales, 1,200, with a depth of 95 feet, so that the
geographical square mile contains here 679 millions of tons, each of twenty
cwt. To obtain the same quantity of combustible material as was furnished
to Prussia, in 1865, by its coal, it would be necessary to use up 6,331 square
miles of forest, (<hi rend='italic'>von Dèchen</hi>, in <hi rend='italic'>Engel's</hi>
Zeitschrift, 1867, 258.) The supply of coal is, of course, exhaustible while,
for instance, turf-fields replace themselves by slow degrees. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Griesbach</hi>, über die Bildung des Torfs, in
the Göttinger Studien, 1845, vol. I. The importance of the coal-fields of the
United States, which are twenty-two times as large as those of Great Britain,
in the distant future, cannot be over-estimated.</note>&mdash;the
<pb n='127'/><anchor id='Pg127'/>
<q>black diamonds,</q> coal, of which, with its canals, Franklin
said that it had made England what it is. The economical
effect of their moveable character is best seen, when the use
made of an ordinary stratum of coal is compared with that of
a protracted subterranean fire in a coal mine.<note place='foot'>I need only call
attention to the earth-fire (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Erdbrand</foreign>) for the purpose of
forcing the growth of garden plants in the neighborhood of Zwickau, which
is said to have existed since 1505.</note> The latter can
be directly useful only to those in its immediate vicinity.
Every lower layer of the burning coal would be less useful.
An increase of its actual power by accumulation in time or
place is scarcely possible. In all these respects, the movable
coal is incomparably better adapted to the satisfaction of man's
wants. It may be said that the capacity of heat for drying,
distilling, melting and hardening purposes, of imparting rapid
motion to heavy objects by the production of confined steam,
is, at least, a thousand times as great when a thousand bushels
of coal are consumed as when one is consumed. In most cases
even the concentration of a large quantity of coal will increase,
the result not only absolutely, but relatively.<note place='foot'>Thus, in
Watt's steam engines of the larger kind, an hourly consumption
of ten pounds of coal is needed to produce a force equivalent to that of one
horse, while in the smallest machines of only one horse power, twenty-two
pounds are needed. See <hi rend='italic'>Prechtl</hi>, Technolo. Encyklopädie, III,
669.</note><note place='foot'>It is easy to see that it is the most important
substances needed in industry which are mentioned in this
section. Many political economists have considered the principal
difference between agriculture and the industries and economies
of towns to lie in the contrast here referred to. Thus, <hi rend='italic'>A.
Sena</hi>, Sulle Cause che possono far abbondare li Regni d'oro e d'argento,
dove non sono miniere, 1613, I, 3. See the description of the difference between
land and machines in <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Principles, III, 5;
<hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>, Outlines, 86. But it is
nothing more than a difference of gradation. Even in the most active
of businesses there is a limit which the accumulation of means of
production cannot pass without a relative diminution of the income. This
boundary is imposed by the limited nature of those organic beings which
must contribute to production either actively or passively. Thus, for instance,
a manufacturing establishment or commercial business can be enlarged
with advantage only so long as it is still possible for one superintendent
to conduct it. And so, when cattle are furnished with very abundant
and substantial food, a pound of meat costs the producer a much higher
price than when they are more moderately supplied: sometimes in the ratio
of 1.95:0.98. <hi rend='italic'>Boussingault</hi>, Economie rurale, II.
Where there is absolute over-feeding, the producer must suffer loss.
But, even inorganic nature imposes its own limits here; as, for
instance, when ships, machines etc., on account of the insufficient
strength of the materials of which they are made, cannot be
constructed beyond a certain size. But all these limits are much
narrower than those imposed by the quality of immovability.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='128'/><anchor id='Pg128'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXXIV. External Nature. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXIV.</head>
<head>External Nature. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
The materials, forces and relations or conditions of external
nature, immovably connected with parts of the land, even
when in themselves exhaustless, either allow only of a definite
amount of economic utilization, as, for instance, the mechanical
force of a given waterfall, which can drive only a definite number
of mills of a definite size;<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>,
Outlines, 26, 81 ff. See <hi rend='italic'>Stewart</hi>, Principles, II, ch.
11; <hi rend='italic'>Ortes</hi>, E. N., I, 18, II, 18 ff. This most important
principle in Political Economy is thus illustrated by <hi rend='italic'>John
Stuart Mill</hi>, Principles, book I, ch. 12. <q>The limitation
to production from the properties of the soil is not like the obstacle
opposed by a wall, which stands immovable in one particular spot, and offers
no hindrance to motion short of stopping it entirely. We may rather compare
it to a highly elastic and extendible band, which is hardly ever so violently
stretched, that it could not possibly be stretched any more, yet the
pressure of which is felt long before the final limit is reached, and felt more
severely the nearer that limit is approached.</q> This is, if possible, more obvious
in building than in agriculture, both as to the construction of new
stories and the excavation of deeper cellars.</note> or their increased utilization is
accompanied by difficulties which increase with still greater
rapidity. This last is the case, especially in the employment
of land for agricultural purposes. It is, according to Senior,
one of the four fundamental axioms of Political Economy, that
additional labor, spent on a given quantity of land, produces,
as a rule, a relatively smaller yield; assuming, of course, that
the art of agriculture remains the same. It is not possible to
<pb n='129'/><anchor id='Pg129'/>
determine either generally, or in particular cases, the precise
point at which agriculture should stop, to prevent relatively
smaller returns from increased expenditure of labor and capital.
Improvements in the art of agriculture may remove it a
great distance. But, that there is such a point admits of no
doubt. No one will believe that an acre of land can be made
to produce a quantity of the means of subsistence sufficient to
support all Europe, no matter what the amount of seed used,
or of manure etc. employed.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ad. Mayer</hi>,
Das Düngerkapital und der Raubbau (Heidelberg, 1869), sees
the only conditions of production which man cannot increase at will exclusively
in the sun's rays, the employment of which also depends on the quantity
of land. Thus would he explain <hi rend='italic'>Senior's</hi> law.</note>
This is most apparent in forest-economy,
where the absolute increase of the so-called wood-capital
becomes, after a certain time, smaller from year to
year.<note place='foot'>See the tables of increase in <hi rend='italic'>Cotta</hi>,
Anweisung zum Waldbau, p. 228. <hi rend='italic'>Count Buquoy</hi>, Theorie der N.
Wirthschaft, p. 54, ridicules the absurd procedure of a great many farmers,
as if by forcing the ploughshare deeper into the soil, they could compel
it to produce a double return, and asks: if one should dig a square foot
of land to the center of the earth and manure it, who would take it
off his hands? As to the effect of manure, <hi rend='italic'>Kuhlmann's</hi>
investigations have shown that 300 kilogrammes of guano produced in three years
an increase per <hi rend='italic'>hectare</hi> in the yield, of 2,469 kilogrammes
of hay; while 600 kilogrammes produced an increase of only 2,870 kilogrammes.
<hi rend='italic'>Schübler</hi>, found that where salt had been used for
manuring purposes, 40 kilogrammes produced a maximum of fertility from which
point forward every increase in the amount of salt was attended by
diminished returns, and finally led to complete barrenness. See
<hi rend='italic'>Wolff</hi>, Naturgesetzliche Grundlagen, I, 408, 412,
502. Constantly increased irrigation would convert the land into a swamp
instead of indefinitely adding to its fertility. Nor can abundant sowing be
of any use when it reaches such a point that the plants stand so closely together
as to interfere with their proper development.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='130'/><anchor id='Pg130'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXXV. External Nature.&mdash;Elements Of
Agricultural Productiveness.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXV.</head>
<head>External Nature.&mdash;Elements Of Agricultural Productiveness.</head>

<p>
In treating of the agricultural productiveness of a piece of
land, it is necessary to distinguish three things,&mdash;its bearing-capacity,
its capacity for cultivation, and its direct capacity to
afford food to plants.<note place='foot'>These differences correspond with
the differences in the kinds of deterioration to which land is liable from
rivers, floods, lava, etc., soil-exhaustion, and the growing wild of
the land.</note> Plants grow by drawing a part of the
elements which enter into their composition from the atmosphere,
and a part from the earth through the agencies of sunlight
and of water. While the air, the sun's heat, and in most
parts of the world, water, are free and inexhaustible goods,
the earth's supply of food for plants must be considered as analogous,
so far as its exhaustibility and capacity to be appropriated
are concerned, to the beds of coal and of ore etc. which
occur in mining districts. This is certainly true, with a few
important differences, however, as for instance, that, as a rule,
it is impossible, except through the cultivation of plants, to obtain
from the earth the stores of plant food which it contains;<note place='foot'>From
a technic point of view, it would, perhaps, be practicable, in most
instances, to obtain the phosphoric acid immediately from the land and
transfer it to other land; but the relation of the cost to the result makes it
impossible from an economical point of view.</note>
and that it is possible to husbandry to replace the portion of
these stores taken from the earth by the harvest, through the
agency of manures.<note place='foot'>It most certainly is always
an uncommon advantage that certain kinds of soil, rich in
kali and decayed vegetable matter, yield a long series of harvests
without the addition of manure, provided, always, that a short interval
is allowed to the process of decay to replace the exhausted plant-food. Thus
in many volcanic regions. Compare on similar districts in the Deccan:
<hi rend='italic'>Rilter</hi>, Erdkunde, V, 714.</note>
</p>

<p>
Incomparably more important in the economic valuation of
a piece of land is its capacity for cultivation, because this depends
<pb n='131'/><anchor id='Pg131'/>
much less on the good or bad quality of the husbandman's
art. I mean here the so-called physical constitution of
the vegetable soil; its water-holding power, its consistency
(light or heavy soil) on which the difficulty of working it depends;
its ability to dry, in a shorter or longer time, and its
accompanying diminution in volume; its ability to draw moisture
from the atmosphere and to absorb the various kinds of
gases; its heat-absorbing and heat-containing power (hot,
warm and cold soils).<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>Schübler</hi>,
the absorption of water by 100 parts of earth is, in the case of
quartz-sand, 25 per cent. of its weight; for clay, 70 per cent.; for
calcareous earth, 85 per cent.; humus, 190 per cent.; and for 100 parts of
their value, respectively, 37.9, 66.2, and 69.2 per cent. The consistency of
the four kinds of earth, in a dry state, is in the proportion of 0.100, 5, 8.7;
their adhesion in a moist state, to iron agricultural implements, is in that of
0.17, 1.12, 0.65, 0.40. Of 100 parts of water mixed with these kinds of earth,
the evaporation in four hours, at a temperature of 18° 75' (centigrade) is
88.4, 31.3, 28 and 20.5 per cent, respectively. The diminution of volume
when the moist earth dries, under the same degree of temperature, is, 0,
18.3, 5 and 20. Their relative absorption of atmospheric moisture for 48
hours is as 0, 24, 17.5 and 55; their absorption of oxygen in 30 days is
respectively 1.6, 15.3, 10.8 and 2.03 per cent.; and, lastly, their heat-holding
power is in the ratio of 95.6, 66.7, 61.8, 49.</note> Much depends here on the depth of
the vegetable soil and on the constitution of the sub-soil,
which, for instance, when it is very permeable, improves a
very moist soil, but in the form of meadow iron-ore (<hi rend='italic'>Wiesenerz</hi>),
works great injury. The vertical form of the land is
also a very important element in estimating the natural fertility
of the soil. In mountainous districts, the quantity of land
which can be used (and with what labor!) is wont to be relatively
smaller than in low lands. Hence it is, that the former
become too small for their inhabitants; who, therefore,
swarm over the plains lying before them either as settlers or
conquerors.<note place='foot'>In Austria, below the Enns, only 3.8 per
cent. of the soil is barren; in the Tyrol, 29 per cent.; in Dalmatia,
48.1 per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>Springer</hi>). In the French
Pyrenees, 43 per cent. is considered incapable of cultivation; in the Alps, in
Landes and Morbihan, 42 per cent.; in the departments of Nord and Somme,
1.3 per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>Schnitzler</hi>).
<hi rend='italic'>Franscini</hi> considers 36 per cent. of Switzerland
unfit for tillage. The idea <q>barren</q> is a very vague one, and hence a comparison
of different countries on this point should not be made without great
caution.</note> In the eastern hemisphere, the northern slopes
<pb n='132'/><anchor id='Pg132'/>
of mountain regions are most unfavorably situated, although
the southern slopes are frequently subjected to more trying
and more sudden variations of thawing and freezing weather.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Wolff</hi>, loc. cit., 353 ff. As to the manner in which soil and
climate mutually improve or injure one another, see <hi rend='italic'>Schwerz</hi>,
Prackt. Ackerbau I, 12.</note>
</p>

<p>
But all these more special qualities of the soil must be distinguished
from their general basis, the bearing or carrying capacity
which land possesses as a mere superficies, and which
the most naked rock (Malta!), and the bed of a flowing
stream (the floating gardens of China!) possess to some extent,
since there is a possibility of establishing a plant-feeding
surface on them. This bearing capacity, which in most instances
is given only by nature, and which can be added to
only to a very limited extent and at great outlay, is wont,
when the population is very dense, to acquire considerable exchange
value in the vicinity.<note place='foot'>In this respect, also, the fundamental
difference between agriculture and industry is very important, inasmuch
as the products of the former, equal in value to those of the latter,
require a very large supporting or bearing surface; those of industry,
a very small one. If <hi rend='italic'>Nobbe's</hi> <q>water-cultivation</q>
should ever come to assume any great practical importance, agriculture
would approach to industry in this respect.</note><note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Wolkoff</hi> has called special attention to mere <hi
rend='italic'>emplacement</hi>: Lectures d'Economie polítique rationelle (1861),
pp. 90 seq., 157 seq. <hi rend='italic'>Bastiat's</hi> rather broad and
enthusiastic assertion, that no mere product of nature possesses
value (in contradistinction to utility), an exaggeration of his very honorable
contest with the socialists (1848!), is refuted by daily experience, as when,
for instance, discoveries are made accidentally of metallic veins, coal-fields
etc., which immediately acquire great exchange value.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='133'/><anchor id='Pg133'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1="Section XXXVI. External Nature.&mdash;Further Divisions Of
Nature's Gifts."/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXVI.'/>
<anchor id="Section_36"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXVI.</head>
<head>External Nature.&mdash;Further Divisions Of Nature's
Gifts.</head>

<p>
The gifts of nature, we further divide into those which can
be directly enjoyed and those which are of use only indirectly,
by facilitating production. (Natural means of enjoyment,&mdash;means
of acquisition.)<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>
distinguishes between ἀπολαυστικὰ and κάρπιμα. (Rhet., I, 5.)</note>
An extreme superfluity of the former
is as disastrous to civilization as a too great scarcity of them.
How simple the economy of a tropical country! A banana
field will support twenty-five times as many men as a wheat
field (<hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>); and with infinitely less labor; for all that
is needed is to cut the stems with their ripened fruit, to
loosen the earth a little and very superficially, when new
stems shoot up.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, Essai
politique, súr la N. Espagne, IV, 9, in which he estimates
the relation of the culture of the banana to that of wheat, in respect of mere
quantity, to be as 4,000 to 30,&mdash;<q>probably the best gift of nature to awakening
man, and the object of the most ancient cultivation.</q></note>
At the base of the mountains of Mexico, a
father needs labor only two days in the week to support his
family. Hence, nothing so much excites the wonder of the
traveler there as the diminutiveness of the cultivated ground
surrounding each Indian hut.<note place='foot'>It was said that in Easter
Island, three days' labor sufficed for a man's maintenance through
the whole year. A similar gift of nature to tropical lands is the
date tree. It is turned to so many different uses that the Arabs
of the coast of the Persian Gulf say that it is possible to construct a ship,
rig it, supply and freight it, from date trees. Houses are built of palm wood,
covered with palm leaves, furnished with palm mats, lighted with palm chips,
and heated with palm coals. The whole architecture of these countries is fashioned
by the date tree. Date wine is the favorite intoxicating beverage. There
is a proverb current there that a good housewife can vary the preparation of
the date for her guests every day in the month. Even the pulp is eaten.
Each tree yields an average of 50-250 lbs. of dates; and a tree may last over
200 years. An acre may contain more than 200 trees. The labor of cultivation
is very slight, although it demands more care than the banana. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, XII, 763. An acre planted with the
sago-palm yields as much nourishment as 163 acres of wheat land. (Reise der
Frigatte Novara, II, 113.)</note> But in these earthly paradises,
<pb n='134'/><anchor id='Pg134'/>
where, as Byron said, even bread is gathered like fruit, the
powers of man slumber as certainly as they grow torpid in
polar deserts.<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>D. Hume</hi>,
Discourses No. I (On Commerce). While in hot countries
<q>the sun does more work for man, it diminishes human strength itself.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>M. Wirth</hi>.) That, however, such people, to their
surplus of the natural means of enjoyment and the consequent laziness
and absence of care, add the bright side of a joyous disposition, is well
shown by <hi rend='italic'>Goethe</hi>, Werke (16 mo., 1840), XXIII, 246.</note>
The sentence: <q>In the sweat of thy brow shalt
thou eat bread,</q> has been a blessing to mankind. Athens was
not only the literary and political, but also the economic capital
of Greece; and yet Attica was one of the most sterile countries
in the world.<note place='foot'>Noticed even by <hi rend='italic'>Thucyd.</hi>,
I, 2. See also <hi rend='italic'>Euripides'</hi> comparison of Sparta
and Messina, in <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, VIII, 366.</note>
Unfortunate Messina, on the other hand,
was the most fertile province of Greece. In modern times, no
countries of equal extent have produced as many great captains,
statesmen, savants and artists as Holland, whose securest portions
are as unfertile as those which are fertile are threatened
by the sea. On the other hand, how lately and imperfectly
has the so-called black-earth of southern Russia fallen under
the influence of civilization!<note place='foot'>We find, in a great
many countries, that their northern portions are endowed more
sparingly by nature with means of enjoyment (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Genussmitteln</foreign>) than southern portions,
but more abundantly with means of acquisition.
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Erwerbsmitteln</foreign>.)
Hence, the former are latest to develop; but once developed,
they assume a much higher place in civilization than the latter. This is true
of Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, the Netherlands, and the United States,
and of North America in general, as compared with South America. Something
similar may be seen in the contrast between Austria and Prussia.
The latter is colder and less fertile, but far superior to the former in extent
of coast, in rivers, and fossilized combustible matter.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='135'/><anchor id='Pg135'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXXVII. External Nature.&mdash;The Geographical
Character Of A Country.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXVII.</head>
<head>External Nature.&mdash;The Geographical Character
Of A Country.</head>

<p>
The geographical character of a country is, as a rule,<note place='foot'>The
rule is not without its exceptions. Thus, for instance, Borneo and
New Guinea are physically very like each other, but zoölogically two different
worlds; the former belonging to India and the latter to Australia.</note> most
intimately connected, not only with its flora and fauna, but also
with the character of its people. One of the crowning glories
of the progress of modern science is, that it has recognized
anew the power of this wonderful organism, and that it has
made geography an explanatory medium between nature and
history. The conditions most favorable to the development of
civilization are found in a well developed country which slopes
gradually through a series of intermediate terraces from a
mountain summit to a plain; especially when they are connected
with one another by a good system of streams; since
here the opposite peculiarities of the populations of the highlands
and coast-lands<note place='foot'>Even language, which is the
most general and most accurate expression of the
intellectual genius of a people, presents a strikingly analogous contrast
in mountainous and coast countries. Thus, compare the Ionic, Latin,
Low German, Danish and Portuguese, with the Doric, Oscan, High German,
Swedish and Spanish.</note> tend to produce a nationality both one
and varied. Where the transitions are too abrupt, as for instance,
in New Holland, they easily impede inter-communication;
and, still more, where the several parts of the country
are of very great extent; as, for example, the desert of North
Africa, the plateau of South Africa or that of Central Asia.
Europe is favored above all other parts of the world by the
happy combination of mountain and plain.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, II, 126. seq.</note> We might pursue
the parallel existing between the soil and the character of
a people into the minutest details, and discover, even in the
<pb n='136'/><anchor id='Pg136'/>
difference between Spanish, French, German and Hungarian
wines, a reflection of the different characters of the people.<note place='foot'>The
most striking instance, illustrative of the manner in which the nature
of a country influences the character of a people is afforded by the difference
in the development of the Aryans in India and Persia, especially
when their sojourn in the territory of the Indus before that near the Ganges
is looked upon as an intermediate stage.</note>
</p>

<p>
But whence is this? Can it be that dead nature has thus
irresistibly affected the living mind? We do not need to give
a materialistic answer to the question.<note place='foot'>French writers,
especially, have exaggerated the influence of nature over man. Thus,
<hi rend='italic'>Bodin</hi>. de Repub. (1584), V, I;
<hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi>, Esprit des Lois, XVII, 6. XVIII, 1, 18.
<hi rend='italic'>Cabanis</hi>, Rapport du Physique et du Moral de
l'Homme (1805), IX, Mémoire, Influence des Climats. <hi rend='italic'>Comte</hi>,
also, Traité de Législation (1827), is of opinion that <q>the degree of
civilization which a people may attain does not depend on the degree of
development of which they are capable by nature, but on that which
their geographical situation permits them to attain.</q> See, also,
<hi rend='italic'>Herodot</hi>., III, 106; <hi rend='italic'>Hippocr</hi>.,
De Ære etc., 71; <hi rend='italic'>Euripid</hi>., Medea, 820 ff.;
<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, De Exilio, 13. The proper mean has been
found by <hi rend='italic'>E.M. Arndt</hi>, in his Anleitung zu historischen
Characterschilderungen (1810), and by <hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, and his
school. See, also, <hi rend='italic'>K.S. Zachariæ</hi>, Idee einer
volkswirthschaftlichen Geographic als Grundlage der praktischen N.
Œkonomie fur jedes einzelne Volk: Vierzig Bücher v. Staate, II, 79. See,
also, <hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Géographie politique, 1750, Œuvres (ed.
Daire, II, 611 ff.); <hi rend='italic'>Lueder</hi>, Nationalindustrie und
Staatswirthschaft, III, 1800 ff.</note> Almost every people
has migrated at some period of its existence. Urged on by
their peculiar tastes and tendencies, they settled in the places
most in harmony with their character. A higher hand was
over them; one which, we should unreservedly trust, placed
them in such external circumstances as were most favorable
to the development of all their faculties.
</p>

<p>
But the influences of man on nature are no less notable than
those of nature upon man. The greater number of domestic
animals and plants which Europe possesses to-day, it has been
obliged to introduce from other parts of the globe.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Malte Brun</hi>, Précis. de la Geographie universelle, VI.
pr.</note> In the interior of Gaul, the vine rarely ripened, at the time of
Christ.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, IV, 178. On the
climate of ancient Germany, see <hi rend='italic'>Tacit</hi>, Germ, 2.</note>
On the other hand, Mesopotamia, formerly one of the gardens
<pb n='137'/><anchor id='Pg137'/>
of the world, is now covered with dried-up canals, filled a
little below the surface with heaps of brick and broken vases,
the remains and other vestiges of a once dense population.
Its former rich alluvial soil, now almost calcined, produces
at present scarcely anything except a few saline plants, mimosas
etc.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Fraser</hi>, Travels in
Koordistan and Mesopotamia, II, 5. See, also, the description of
ancient Susiana in <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi> XV, 731, with that of the new one
by <hi rend='italic'>M'Kinneir</hi>, Geogr. Memoir of Persia, 92.</note>
The higher the civilization of a people, the less
does it depend on the nature of the country.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXXVIII. Of Labor.&mdash;Divisions Of Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXVIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_38"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXVIII.</head>
<head>Of Labor.&mdash;Divisions Of Labor.</head>

<p>
Man's capacity for most economic labor is so closely connected
with the exquisite articulation of the human hand, that
Buffon could say without exaggeration that reason and the
hand made man man.<note place='foot'>Thus, <hi rend='italic'>Galenus</hi>, De
Usu Partium Corporis humani, L. I. The animal nearest to man mentally, the elephant,
is also possessed of a member more like the human hand than any other animal. Its
trunk was called <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>manus</foreign> by
the Romans. Hence the Indians call the elephant, the animal gifted with a
hand. <hi rend='italic'>Buffon's</hi> view is exaggerated by Helvetius in the
interests of materialism. <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>, (De partt. anim. IV,
10), opposes the saying of Anaxagoras: διὰ τὸ χεῖρας ἔχειν φρονιμώτατον εἶναι τῶν
ζώων ἄνθρωπον. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Bell</hi>, On the human Hand, 1836.</note>
But it is true of economic labor, as of
all other labor, that it is more efficient in proportion as mind
predominates over matter.
</p>

<p>
The best division of economic labor is the following:<note place='foot'>As to
the imperfection of the ordinary division into agricultural, industrial
and commercial labor, see <hi rend='italic'>John Stuart Mill</hi>, I, ch. 2,
9. The division of all labor into mental and physical, is not more satisfactory;
for even the basest labor is not wholly physical. See <hi rend='italic'>Buckle</hi>,
History of Civilization, vol. II.</note>
</p>

<p>
A. Discoveries and inventions.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Dioscorides</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>Galen</hi> were acquainted with, at most, 600 plants;
<hi rend='italic'>Linnæus</hi>, with 8,000. About 1812, about 30,000 had been
described; in 1837, about 60,000; in 1849, about 100,000.
<hi rend='italic'>Buckle</hi>, History of Civilization etc., II, p. 359.</note>
</p>

<p>
B. Occupation of the spontaneous gifts of nature, as, for instance,
<pb n='138'/><anchor id='Pg138'/>
of wild plants, wild animals, and of minerals.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Industrie extractives</hi>, according to <hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>.
When nature's spontaneous gifts are exhausted, this <emph>occupation</emph> readily
becomes <emph>production</emph>.</note> Where
this is the only kind of economic labor, man is necessarily dependent
on nature in a high degree.
</p>

<p>
C. The production of raw materials; that is, a direction
given to nature in order to the production of raw materials,
by stock-raising, agriculture, forest-culture etc., but not by
mining.
</p>

<p>
D. The transformation (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Verarbeitung</foreign>) of raw material by
means of manufactories, factories, the trades etc.
</p>

<p>
E. The distribution of stores of goods among those who
are to use them directly, whether from people to people or
from place to place (wholesale), or among the individuals of
the same place (retail).<note place='foot'><foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>Industrie voituriére</foreign>, according to
<hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>; <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>industria
traslocatrice</foreign> in opposition to <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>trasformatrice</foreign>, according to
<hi rend='italic'>Scialoja</hi>. <hi rend='italic'>Ortes</hi> distinguishes only four
classes: <hi rend='italic'>agricoltori</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>artefici</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>dispensatori</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>administratori</hi>, or
<hi rend='italic'>raccoglitori</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>manifattori</hi>, and
<hi rend='italic'>difensori di bene</hi> (E. N. I, 2; III, 14).
<hi rend='italic'>A. Walker</hi>, Science of Wealth (1867), p. 34, knows only three
classes: transmutation, transformation, transportation.</note>
To this class also belong leasing,
renting, loaning, etc.
</p>

<p>
F. Services, in the more limited sense of the term, which
embraces personal as well as incorporeal goods; as, for instance,
the labors of the doctor, teacher; virtuoso, of the statesman,
judge, and of preachers, whose office it is, by way of
eminence, to produce and preserve the immaterial wealth,
known as the State and the Church.<note place='foot'>This is not to be understood
in the sense, that there ever was a period in which these sciences were unknown.
We need only mention the position occupied by the priest and knight in the middle
ages. But, looked upon as economic labor, intended only for purposes of free commerce,
they have become very important only within a relatively recent period of time.
Thus, for instance, there was in Lower Austria, in 1866, one lawyer or notary to every
6,569 inhabitants; in Bohemia, to every 14,860; in Galicia, to every 22,361;
in the whole of Cis-Leithanian Austria, 12,259. In 1865, there was in Prussia,
one to every 11,149; in Bavaria, to every 7,350; in Hanover, to every 4,946;
in 1862, in Baden, one to every 4,992; in 1867, in Saxony, one to every 3,048.
<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Tagebuch, 1868, I, 234. There was in Prussia,
in 1871, one doctor to every 3,230 inhabitants; in Berlin, to every 1,100; in
Heldesheim, to 1,803; in Cologne, to 2,120, in Marienwerder, to 7,240; in Gumbinnen, to
10,047. <hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi>, Preuss. Statis. Zeitschrift, 1872, 376. The
verb <q>to plow</q> is, according to comparative philologists, of more recent origin
than <q>to weave.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Lassen</hi>, Indische Alterth. I, 814 ff.)
And yet agriculture, in the sense above indicated, undoubtedly precedes industry.</note>
</p>

<p>
The order followed in the above classification is that in
which the different classes of labor are wont to be historically
developed.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='139'/><anchor id='Pg139'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XXXIX. Labor.&mdash;Taste For
Labor.&mdash;Piece-Wages.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XXXIX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_39"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XXXIX.</head>
<head>Labor.&mdash;Taste For Labor.&mdash;Piece-Wages.</head>

<p>
Man's taste for labor is conditioned especially by the extent
to which, and the security with which, he may hope to enjoy
the fruit of his labor himself. Hence it is that, as a rule, the
slave (§ <ref target="Section_71">71</ref>, ff.) and socager work least willingly, the
day laborer with less industry than the piece-worker,<note place='foot'>Observed
by <hi rend='italic'>Geiler v. Kaisersberg</hi>. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Schmoller</hi> in the Tübinger Zeitschr., 1860, 483. Hour
wages occupy a middle place between day wages and piece wages.</note> who is at the
same time more satisfied with himself, and gives most satisfaction
to his master,<note place='foot'>Thus the introduction of piece wages into
lower Silesia has increased the daily earnings of workmen by one-third,
one-half, and even more. <hi rend='italic'>Engel's</hi> Stastist. Zeitschr.
(1868), p. 327. The investigations of the German agricultural
congress on the condition of agricultural laborers in the German empire
(report of <hi rend='italic'>v. d. Goltz</hi>, 1875) show that in all Germany
on an average, the daily earnings of a contract workman (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Accordlöhner</foreign>) is to the daily summer
wages of a day laborer as 15:10 (1420). On the other hand,
<hi rend='italic'>Brassey</hi>, in the construction of a railway, found that the
same workmen engaged in grading, digging, etc., cost 18 pence per yard when paid by
the day, and 7 pence when paid by the piece. (Work and Wages, 266.) Swiss experience
is, that production became 20 per cent. cheaper under the piece wages system.
(<hi rend='italic'>Böhmert</hi>, Beitr., 109.)</note> since
he acquires more both for himself and for his master. The superiority of piece-paid
labor is
<pb n='140'/><anchor id='Pg140'/>
greater in proportion as the workman calculates his own advantage.
It is, therefore, smallest in the case of ingenuous uneducated
workmen, and in that of the really conscientious.<note place='foot'>According to
<hi rend='italic'>v. d. Goltz's</hi> Enquête, the earnings of workmen by the piece,
compared with the wages paid workmen by the day in summer, is especially
high in middle Franconia (16.5:10); in the Leipzig circle of the German
empire (16.6), in the Braunschweig plain (16.8), within the jurisdiction of
Hildesheim (18.1), of the Bavarian Palatinate (18.6), in Rhenish Hesse (23.2),
especially low in Stettin (13.2:10), in Stralsund (12.4), in Schleswig Holstein
(12), in Osnabrück, (11.7.)</note>
The fear of seeing one's condition grow worse, through want
of industry, exerts an influence precisely similar to the hope of
improving it. In both respects, free competition (§ <ref target="Section_97">97</ref>)
must be considered one of the principal means of furthering the
taste for labor.<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>v. Flotow</hi>,
Anleitung zur Fertigung der Ertragsanschlage, I, 80, four days of serf labor are
equivalent to only three of a free day laborer. According to <hi rend='italic'>v.
Jacob</hi>, Ueber die Arbeit Leibeigener und freier Bauern (1815), 21, two day
laborers are equal to three serfs, and one farm horse is equal to two employed by
serfs. It is as impossible to obtain accurate general estimates
here, as in the case of slave labor. As a rule, hope is not only a more
humane but a sharper spur to action. But if force is employed at all, there is
no doubt that the greater it is, the more effectual it is. Wherever the right of
corporal punishment has been taken from the masters, the technic value of
serfdom has uniformly decreased. In the English West Indies, formerly,
philanthropic masters who treated their negroes with unwonted gentleness,
obtained from them, as a rule, very poor economic results. While each of
the slaves expressed the greatest indignation at the idleness of the others
when they had <q>so good a master,</q> they were all equally and excessively
lazy. The weekly production of a plantation sank rapidly under this system
from thirty-three hogsheads to twenty-three, and finally to thirteen.
<hi rend='italic'>Math. Levis</hi>, Journal of a West India Proprietor, 1834;
Edinburg Review, XLV, 410. For the same reason, the negroes in the Spanish colonies,
who were treated much more gently than those owned by other European nationalities
produced much worse work. See, however, <hi rend='italic'>Columella</hi>, De Re
rust., I, 8.</note>
</p>

<p>
Among the causes which have contributed to make England
the first country in the world, viewed from a politico-economical
stand-point, English writers on Political Economy
have pointed out as one of the principal, the prevalence there
of piece-wages.<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>Howlett</hi>,
The Insufficiency of the Causes to which the Increase of our Poor Rate have been
ascribed (1788), piece wages had become usual <q>a few years ago.</q> Very
recently the trades unions have again restricted the system of piece wages (§
176).</note> Payment by the piece should, of course, be
<pb n='141'/><anchor id='Pg141'/>
practiced, only in cases in which the work may be broken up
into a series of isolated tasks, and is completed by such a series.
Hence, it is not applicable where a great many different
things are required of the same workman; nor in relations
in which continuity, as, for instance, of the inclination
or disposition of the workman is the chief thing.<note place='foot'>This
system is inapplicable in the case of domestic servants (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Gesinde</foreign>) who are a
part of the household, and who afford to their masters, besides their services,
the advantage of having a person at their disposal always about them,
and whose wages are therefore in great part their board and lodging. Still
less can it apply to the case of the family physician, whose services consist
not simply in writing prescriptions, but who is also the professional family
friend. The same may be said of the state official, clergyman etc., from
whom it is demanded that he should sacrifice his entire life to the service of
the public. Against adopting piece wages in the case of state officials, it may
be further urged that no case at law, no act of public life is precisely similar
to any other. It cannot be applied to that of soldiers, because they are called
upon for action only after a long term of peace, during all of which they must
keep themselves in readiness for war. (<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, N. Œk.,
II, 388.) It has also been the practice of courts, until recently, on
account of their dignity, to pay their mechanics not by the piece,
wherever that was practicable, but by a fixed salary. An able
professor in a university is of use to it not only by
his lectures, but by his reputation and example etc.; hence, here, a combination
of piece wages and of a regular salary is preferred. As to services, the
permanency of which constitutes their essential character, remuneration is
also wont to be permanent or hereditary, as in the case of very many public
officers, while civilization is as yet unadvanced. Later, in proportion as the
progress of civilization makes itself felt, this hereditariness is wont to be
confined to the sovereign. For an opposite view, see <hi rend='italic'>Boxhorn</hi>,
Institutt. politt. (1663), 41.</note> The further
the division of labor is carried in our day, the greater
the part money plays in our social economy, and the more
lasting relations are dissolved, the more general becomes piece-work,
which, with all its material advantages, has, speaking
morally, its dark side. (<hi rend='italic'>Atomism!</hi>)<note place='foot'>Thus,
the Chinese, who, by a ridiculous exaggeration bordering on caricature
of many of our recent tendencies, may afford us a warning reflection of
ourselves in our present state of civilization, rarely labor efficiently when not
watched. Only by means of piece wages or the share-system can they be
induced to do good work. <hi rend='italic'>R. M. Micking</hi>; Recollections
of Manilla and the Phillippine Islands, 1851.</note> In a great many branches
<pb n='142'/><anchor id='Pg142'/>
of manufactures it has been relinquished because the excellence
of his work suffered from the workman's haste, and because
he could not be properly controlled.<note place='foot'>Day laborers, for
instance, must be watched over during the harvest, to prevent
their idling away their time, and piece-workers to prevent their continuing
to work in spite of wet weather, binding sheaves, for instance, which
causes the sheaves to rot. In England, it is considered almost an impossibility
to induce laborers to cut wheat close enough to the soil.
(<hi rend='italic'>Sinclair</hi>, Code of Agriculture, 102.) The
haste of piece-workers, in the harvest of the rape, occasions
great loss, by the fall of the seed. In Russia the removing
of the hide from animals is paid for by the piece, and the laborers injure a
very large number of skins in their haste. <hi rend='italic'>Steinhaus</hi>,
Russlands industrielle und commercielle Verhältnisse, 425.
Piece-wages are to be entirely discountenanced in the reeling
of silk. See <hi rend='italic'>Bernouilli</hi>, Technologie, II, 215. A
yearly salary is to be recommended in the tending of cattle, because here a
certain connection (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Anschluss</foreign>)
with individuals is desirable. In building trades,
contractors in England prefer a regular salary; but they employ model
workmen, the so-called <q>bell horses,</q> to whom they pay a large salary, and
who keep the others on the strain by their example, and who on that account
are very much hated by their colleagues.</note> It is rather the quantity
than the quality of work which increases with piece-work,
and where the quality of the work is what is desired,
this system has not the same field. And where it obtains, as,
for instance, in the case of ordinary type-setters, resort is had
to payment by the day for compositors engaged on mathematical
treatises, fac-similes, inscriptions etc. On the side of the
workman, it is generally only the idle and awkward who oppose
piece-work on principle. It is a subject of regret that
the best and most industrious workmen are carried away by
it to an extent detrimental to their health.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi>, W. of Nations, I, ch. 8. <hi rend='italic'>Howlett</hi>, also, l. c.,
thinks that piece-wages increase the earnings of workmen, but at the expense of their
capacity for constant labor. <hi rend='italic'>Count Görtz</hi>, in his Reise, 328,
relates with what fatal effect piece-work in Demarara tells on white laborers and their
horses. After the February Revolution, Parisian workmen demanded the abolition
of piece-wages, and obtained it in several manufactories. Revue des deux
Mondes, March 15, 1848.</note> However, many
<pb n='143'/><anchor id='Pg143'/>
of the deficiencies of the piece-wage principle may be removed
by agreements made with whole groups of workmen; provided,
always, that the groups are not too large to prevent
the mutual knowledge and surveillance of their members.<note place='foot'>In
several Swiss factories, understrappers receive a salary, while
<hi rend='italic'>monteurs</hi> work by groupe-contract.
(<hi rend='italic'>Böhmert</hi>, Arbeiterverältnisse und Fabrikeinrichtungen
der Schw., II, 70.) Sub-contracting, where the contract is generally
made with only one person, for the most part of more than average capacity,
and this latter contracts with other workmen on his own account entirely, is
considered by philanthropic employers of labor as one of the worst kinds of
remuneration. The more democratic system of gang-contract is much
better, although even here, it is very easy for the weaker members of a
good gang to overwork themselves. (Edinburg Review, October, 1873,
365.)</note> The quantity of work is greatest, its quality best, and the
material<note place='foot'>Especially important in chemical factories. The expense
of greasing on the Rhenish railways fell, through premiums offered as rewards for saving,
from 27,000 thalers to 5,000, in spite of an increase in the amount of traffic.
(<hi rend='italic'>v. Mangoldt</hi>, Volkswirthschaftslehre, 349.) This was, besides,
the most effectual way of controlling the theft of material.</note>
employed used most sparingly, when the workman works
on his own account, or has a share in the profits. This last is
proper only in those branches of the business the success of
which depends on the quality of the work. To compel the
workman to share in the profits alone will not do, because he
is generally too poor to run any risk or to do long without his
earnings. The system of paying <q>commissions,</q> therefore, is
to be recommended all the more strongly, since it is a combination
of fixed wages with a share in the profits. This system
is very prevalent in North America, where a great deal
has to be confided to the workmen. It is practiced, also, in
the whale fisheries, and on the Greek ships in the Levant engaged
in coasting, where much more depends on the care of
the sailors than on the ability of the captain.<note place='foot'>In the cachelot
fishery, the captain receives one-sixteenth, the master, one twenty-fifth,
the second master, one thirty-fifth, the boatswain, one-sixtieth, each sailor,
one eighty-fifth of the profit. (<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, N. Espagne,
IV, 10.) This system is very common in North America. See <hi rend='italic'>Carey</hi>
in <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill's</hi> Principles, V, ch. 9, 7. In heathen Iceland,
mariners were always paid a certain quota of the profits. <hi rend='italic'>Leo</hi>,
in <hi rend='italic'>Raumer's</hi> historischem Taschenbuch, 1835, 524. The same
was often the case in China. <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, Comm. Diction. v.
Canton. In England, its employment was rendered very difficult by the laws
of partnership, which made each individual, except in great chartered societies,
responsible for all kinds of debts contracted by the rest of the firm.
<hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>, B. IV, ch. 7, 5.</note> It presupposes
<pb n='144'/><anchor id='Pg144'/>
good workmen, equal almost to their master in education,<note place='foot'>The
house painter Leclaire, in Paris, obtained very high results in this
respect. <hi rend='italic'>Leclaire</hi>, Répartition des Bénéfices du Travail,
1842. He retained for his own services as contractor the sum of 6,000 francs, and
paid each workman the salary he had hitherto received. What remained was, at the
end of the year, equally divided among all. <hi rend='italic'>Leclaire</hi> assures us
that he was always satisfied with the system. The paying of a proportion of the
general profits to laborers is advisable only in case their ability of surveying
the whole is not much inferior to that of their employers. Where
a special proportion is paid, in special branches of business, it is sufficient
if their supervision extends over that particular branch. But a sharing in
the profits of business always supposes a corresponding supervision of the
business itself, and also the keeping of accounts.</note>
for instance, in the case of overseers of labor; since every better
inducement to the taste for labor which is not only juster
but more complicative, is not only a condition but also the effect
of higher culture. But if the economy of a people is ripe
for share-wages, and masters begin to introduce them in earnest
in individual cases, the work produced will be improved to
such a degree that it can not be long before all others will be
necessitated to follow them.<note place='foot'>A very good remedy
against indigence among the lower classes. (<hi rend='italic'>Umpfenbach</hi>,
National Œkonomie, 1867, 214.) But whether it will ever be possible
to make the remuneration of the navvy or that of a type-setter depend
on the final success of his work, <hi rend='italic'>qnœre</hi>.</note>
</p>

<p>
If,  however, workmen are to enjoy the fruit of their industry,
it is necessary, first of all, that public order should be secure.
Even the most industrious become discouraged where
despotism or anarchy prevails. On the other hand, even the
greatest security is no sufficient incentive to a nation of
fatalists.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Tournefort</hi>, speaking of
the fatalism of the Turks, says that they always
and everywhere leave the world as they found it. According to their own
proverb, no grass grows again where the Osman has set foot.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='145'/><anchor id='Pg145'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XL. Labor.&mdash;Labor-Power Of Individuals.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XL.'/>
<anchor id="Section_40"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XL.</head>
<head>Labor.&mdash;Labor-Power Of Individuals.</head>

<p>
The average labor-power of individuals varies very much
in different nations.<note place='foot'>The experiments made with the dynamometer
in 1800 ff. show that the average <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>force
manuelle</foreign> of an inhabitant of Van Dieman's Land is to that of an
inhabitant of New Holland, of Timor, of a French marine, and of an English
colonist in Australia, in the ratio of 50, 51, 58, 69, 71 kilogrammes.
<hi rend='italic'>Péron</hi>, Voyage de Découverte aux Terres australes, 2d ed.,
II, 417. It was found more recently in the American army, that the average
lifting-power of white soldiers was 314 to 343 -lbs.; of white marines, 307;
students, 308; negroes, 323; mulattos, 348; and Indians, 419.
<hi rend='italic'>Gould</hi>, Investigations in the Military and Anthropolog.
Statistics of American Soldiers, 1869, 458, seq. According to English manufacturers,
an English laborer accomplishes almost as much again as a French one(?), and the
latter in turn more than an Irishman. An English contractor, who had worked in
French manufactories, expressed his opinion concerning the French to this effect:
<q>It cannot be called work they do; it is only looking at it and wishing it done.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>, Outlines, 149. Thus, for instance, a good English
spinner with a machine of 800 spindles could produce 66 lbs. of yarn, No. 40, while
a Frenchman could produce only 48 lbs. (<hi rend='italic'>M. Mohl</hi>, Reise durch
Frankreich, 535; compare <hi rend='italic'>Dingler</hi>, Polyt. Journal, I, 63 seq.)
That the Americans also are inferior to the English in strength and dexterity is
attested by the American <hi rend='italic'>Hewitt</hi>. See
<hi rend='italic'>Brentano</hi>, Arbeitergilden, II, 231. A Berlin wood-sawyer
accomplished as much in ten days as a West Prussian from Labiau in twenty-seven days.
<hi rend='italic'>J. G. Hoffmann.</hi> English farmers on the Hellespont prefer to
pay Greek laborers £10 per year <q>besides their keep,</q> rather than £3 to Turkish
laborers. (<hi rend='italic'>Lord Carlisle</hi>, Diary in Turkish and Greek Waters,
1854, p. 77 seq.) In Paulo-pinang, the Malayan agricultural laborer receives $2-½
per month, the Malabar, $4, the Chinese, $6; for which compensation they work
respectively 26, 28 and 30 days. <hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, v, 54.</note>
The reason of this is, in part, doubtless
a difference in natural endowments. Thus, for instance, no
people surpass the English and Anglo-American in energy,
none the German in intelligence in work or the French in taste.
Where we can assume that the same meaning is attached to the
expression, <q>military capacity,</q> by the different recruiting bureaus,
important conclusions as to the physical labor-power of
different localities may be drawn from the ratio existing between
<pb n='146'/><anchor id='Pg146'/>
the number of those fit for military service and those
who are legally liable to military duty.<note place='foot'>Little light can
be thrown on this subject by a comparison of different countries. Thus, in
France, there are 614 persons in every 1,000 examined fit for military
service; in Bavaria, 705; in Denmark, 523; in Austria, 498; in Prussia, 284;
in Saxony, 259; in England, where the conscription is from among the lowest
classes, 665; and in Württemberg, 490. (<hi rend='italic'>Wappäus</hi>, Allg.
Bevölkerungsstatistik, II, 71, 140.) <hi rend='italic'>Massy</hi>, Remarks on
the Examination of Recruits, 1854. (<hi rend='italic'>Memminger</hi>, Würt.
Jahrb., 1843, 103.) The comparison of different parts of the same state is
much more instructive. Thus, in Saxony, cities afford only 197, and
the flat country only 265 per 1,000 (Sächs. statist. Ztschr., 1856,
No. 4 ff.); and in France there are among those of illegitimate
birth a very large number unfit for military service. (Journ. des Econ., 1850,
XXV, 69.) According to the Austrian Annual of military statistics, there
were in 1870, on an average, throughout the entire monarchy, 211 per 1,000
of those liable to enter the ranks of the military, fit for service; in the Innsbruck
command, 325; in Lemberg, 179.</note>
</p>

<p>
But these conclusions are greatly modified by the state of
civilization and that of society. Where the laboring classes
are despised and paid in a manner unworthy of human beings,
the badness of their work will be in keeping with the estimation
in which it is held. The reverse of this, also, is usually
true under different circumstances. (§ 173.) Thus, it has been
noticed in France, that native workmen, provided with as substantial
food as English workmen, are scarcely inferior to the
the latter in the technic value of their labor.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>M.
Chevalier</hi>, Cours, I, 115. <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, B. I, ch. 8,
noticed the great industry of well paid workmen. Among the uneducated, labor must almost
necessarily be repulsive in proportion as it is illy remunerated.</note> A Mecklenburg
day laborer eats almost twice as much as a Thuringian
workman, but then he accomplishes almost twice as much.
Hence, employers gain in the long run by paying their workmen
well. As civilization advances, the same number of workmen
become, not only more industrious and more capable, but the
same quantity and quality of labor becomes, as a rule, cheaper.<note place='foot'>Thus
<hi rend='italic'>A. Young</hi> remarked that wages in Ireland are wretchedly low, while
labor is far from being cheap. In his <q>Evidence in Respect to the Occupation
of Land in Ireland,</q> II, 135, he says that a Scotch day laborer at 1s. per
day is cheaper than an Irish day laborer at ½s. According to
<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, <q>Statis. Account of the British Empire,</q>
I, 666, industrial labor in Germany and France is dearer than in England, because
in the former countries there are, <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>ceteris
paribus</foreign>, twice as many laborers employed in most manufactures.
See <hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>, Lectures on Wages, 1830, 11, and the reports of the
committees of parliament, <hi rend='italic'>passim</hi> on French manufactures (1825).
The same has been experienced in the agricultural history of Schleswig-Holstein.
See <hi rend='italic'>Hanssen</hi>, Archiv. der Politisch. Œk. IV, 421.
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>La main d'œuvre est chère en Russie dès
qu'il s'agit d'une certaine capacité et d'un certain degré d'instruction professionelle,
tandis que celle de l'ouvrier ordinaire n'est nulle part aussi bas.</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>Tégoborsky.</hi>)</note>
</p>

<pb n='147'/><anchor id='Pg147'/>

<p>
The moral culture of a people exerts the greatest influence
here. In every private undertaking, a great part of the expense
attending it, and in every state, a great part of the expense
of its police system, and of its system of administering
justice, is occasioned only by the dishonesty of men. If all
this expense could be dispensed with, and full confidence placed
in individuals, it would be possible to devote much more time
and energy to positively useful labor.<note place='foot'>Thus even
<hi rend='italic'>Columella</hi>, R. R. I, 9. <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>,
Principles, I, ch. 7, 5.</note> In estimating the labor-power
of different nations or different periods of time, the division
of population according to age is also of importance.
As a rule, the labor-power of males is greatest from the age
of twenty-five to the age of forty-five. The more numerous,
therefore, the class of the population between these ages is,
the more favorably, other things being equal, is it situated as
regards labor.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance, the Lex Visigoth., VIII,
4, 16, graduates the fine to be paid by the murderer according to the age of
his victim. It increases up to the 20th year in the case of males, and
diminishes after the 50th. In the case of females, the maximum is attained
between the ages of 15 and 40. Similarly even <hi rend='italic'>Moses</hi>,
Book III, 27.</note><note place='foot'>As to what concerns the two sexes,
the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>force rénale</foreign> of adult
males is twice that of females in the human species. The difference between them in
youth is not so great. The force <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>manuelle</foreign> of the two sexes at the age of 30 is as
9:5. (<hi rend='italic'>Quételet</hi>, Sur l'Homme II, p. 73 ff.) The numerical
ratio of one sex to the other varies but little among those nations which have attained
a certain degree of civilization. See <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § 245.</note>
But, as a rule, the relative number of full-grown
people is greatest in highly civilized nations. (§ 248.)<note place='foot'><p>It is
of great importance to calculate here the number of days in the year
in which the laborer is compelled to be idle on account of sickness.
<hi rend='italic'>Fenger</hi>, (Quid faciant ætas annique tempus ad frequentiam et
diuturnitatem morborum, Hafniæ 1840), finds the following result:
</p>
<p>
Between 15 and 19 years, 7.2 days.  Between 35 and 39 years, 7.8 days.<lb/>
Between 20 and 24 years, 10.3 days. Between 40 and 44 years, 8.3 days.<lb/>
Between 25 and 29 years, 9.5 days. Between 45 and 49 years, 11.6 days.<lb/>
Between 30 and 34 years, 7.6 days. Between 50 and 59 years, 14.1 days.
</p>
<p>
According to <hi rend='italic'>Villermé</hi>, in the Annales d'Hygiène, II,
</p>
<p>
At 60 years, 16 days. At 67 years, 42 days.<lb/>
At 65 years, 31 days. At 70 years, 75 days.
</p>
<p>
The latter table is the result of a comparison made of the tables of seventy
Scotch mutual aid societies. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Digler</hi>, Polyt. Journal,
XXIV, 168.</p></note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='148'/><anchor id='Pg148'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XLI. Labor.&mdash;Effect Of The Esteem In Which It Is
Held.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLI.'/>
<anchor id="Section_41"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLI.</head>
<head>Labor.&mdash;Effect Of The Esteem In Which It Is Held.</head>

<p>
As civilization advances, labor becomes more honorable.
All barbarous nations despise it as slavish. <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>Pigrum et iners videtur sudore
adquirere quod possis sanguine parare</foreign>: has been
the motto of all medieval times. In heathen Iceland, the
owner of a piece of land might be deprived of it by an adversary
who could overpower him in single combat. This mode
of acquisition was considered more honorable than purchase.
It was Thor's own form of investiture. The ideas of the
Romans on rightful acquisition may be inferred from the word
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>mancipium</foreign>
(manu capere).<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Tacit.</hi>, Germ., 14.
<hi rend='italic'>Leo</hi>, in <hi rend='italic'>Raumer's</hi> Taschenbuch, 1835,
418. <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Maxime sua esse credebant, quæ:
ex hostibus cepissent.</foreign> (<hi rend='italic'>Gajus</hi> IV, 16.) Roman auction
<hi rend='italic'>sub hasta</hi>! Similar views obtained among the Thracians. See
<hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, V, 6. In Sparta, even in the time of Agesilaus,
economic labor was considered unworthy of a free man, (<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>,
Ages, 26); while the Athenians, from the time of Solon, punished idleness, and
from that of Pericles <q>knew no other festival but attending to their business.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Thucyd.</hi>, I. 70. For some happy observations on this subject,
see <hi rend='italic'>Riehl</hi>, Die deutsche Arbeit, 1861.</note> Pure Christianity,
on the other hand, preached the honorableness of labor from the first
(Thess. 4, 11; II. Thess. 3, 8 seq.; Eph. 4, 28). And so in
the time of the Reformation,<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Erasmus</hi>
Colloq. (ed. <hi rend='italic'>Stallb.</hi>), 21 ff., 213 ff., 392 ff.</note>
when Christendom was returning
to its primitive purity.
</p>

<p>
In keeping with this is the fact, that the most cultivated
<pb n='149'/><anchor id='Pg149'/>
nations, and the same may be said of individuals, value time
most highly. <q>Time is money.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Benjamin Franklin.</hi>) An
English proverb calls time the stuff of which life is made.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Temple</hi> learned from the Dutch of his own age that the time of
industrious men is the greatest home commodity of a country. (Works I, 129.) <q>A
trader's time is his bread.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Sir M. Decker</hi>, Essay on the
Decline etc., 1744, 24.) <hi rend='italic'>Walpole</hi>, in his Testament politique
II, 385, speaks of the inferiority of the Roman Church in this respect. I would
allude to the medieaval prohibition <q>to sell time</q> as one of the chief grounds
of the prohibition of usury. (See <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Gesch. der N. Œk.
in Deutschland, 7.) <hi rend='italic'>Economia di tempo equivale a prolungamento di
esistenza.</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>Soialeja.</hi>)</note>
While in negro nations, individuals do not even know their
own age; while in Russia, there are very few clocks to
strike the hours, even in the towers of churches, in England,
a watch is considered an indispensable article of apparel, even
for very young people and for some of the lower orders of
society.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Douville</hi>, Voyage au Congo I,
239. See <hi rend='italic'>v. Haxthausen</hi>, Studien, II, 439;
<hi rend='italic'>W. Jacob</hi>, Production and Consumption of the precious
Metals, II, 209. The division of the day into hours dates from the time of
the sun dials of Alexandria. It was not known in Rome until after the year of
the city 491. (<hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>, Römische Geschichte, I. 301.)</note>
Railroads operate in this respect as a kind of national
clock. The introduction of machinery and the more
minute division of labor, make punctuality a necessity. While
South Americans and West Indians are frightfully careless in
their every movement, a carelessness which betrays itself even
in their drawling speech,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Pinckard</hi>, Notes
on the West Indies, 1806, II, 107. In Spain it looks as if no one in the streets
was in a hurry. What a contrast between the <hi rend='italic'>sans souci</hi> gait
of persons at bathing places and the resorts of pilgrims and the precipitate haste
in commercial centres!</note> the life of a New Englander has
been compared to the rush of a locomotive. In the markets
of Central Asia, nothing strikes the European with so much
surprise as the little value put upon time by the merchants of
India and Bucharia, who are fully satisfied when, after endless
waiting, they succeed in obtaining a somewhat higher price
for their wares.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Meyendorff</hi>, Voyage
à Boukhara, 246.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='150'/><anchor id='Pg150'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1="Section XLII. Of Capital.&mdash;The Classes Of Goods Of Which A
Nation's Capital Is Made Up."/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLII.</head>
<head>Of Capital.&mdash;The Classes Of Goods Of Which A
Nation's Capital Is Made Up.</head>

<p>
Capital<note place='foot'>The history of this idea affords a remarkable example of the
confusion produced by the employment of scientific terminology in daily life. Until
within a short time every possible meaning of the word <hi rend='italic'>capital</hi>
was to be found in the dictionary of the French Academy, its scientific
politico-economical meaning alone excepted. During the middle ages, the Latin
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>capitale</foreign> was used to signify both
loaned money and cattle. (<hi rend='italic'>Ducange</hi>, s.v.) When culture was at its
highest in Greece, <hi rend='italic'>Demosthenes</hi> entertained very good
ideas of the nature of capital which he sometimes calls ἀφορμὴ, sometimes ἔρανος, the
meaning of which he extends also to the incorporeal capital of a good reputation.
(Adv. Mid., 574; pro Phorm, 947.) The same may be said of the Roman in conception of
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>peculium</foreign>. See
<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrbb., 1866, I. 338. On the beginnings of the
present idea of capital among the later schoolmen, see <hi rend='italic'>Funck</hi>,
Tübinger Ztschr., 1869, 149. The diary of <hi rend='italic'>Lucas Rems</hi>, 1491-1541
(ed. <hi rend='italic'>Greiff</hi>, 1861), calls commercial capital, in most instances,
the chief good (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Hauptgut</foreign>) p. 37;
also <hi rend='italic'>Cavedal</hi>. The words money and capital, interest and the price
of money are now confounded in daily life, as they were formerly by most writers. In
the 17th century, <hi rend='italic'>Child</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi> may be
mentioned as instances. <hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi> had some faint notion of the
productive power of capital. See <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Zur Geschichte der
englischen Volkswirthschaftslehre, 49, 60, 102. Thus, also, in the 18th century,
<hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>, Sur l'Usage des Monnaies, 697; Trade and money (1705) 117;
<hi rend='italic'>Mélon</hi>, Essai politique sur le Commerce, 1734, ch. 22;
<hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, Della Moneta, IV, 1, 3; <hi
rend='italic'>Blackstone</hi>, Commentaries, 1764, II, 456; <hi
rend='italic'>Genovesi</hi>, Economia civile, II, 2, 18, 13; <hi
rend='italic'>Stewart</hi>, Principles, IV, 1, ch. IV; <hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>,
Meditazioni, XIV; <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, V. 14; <hi rend='italic'>A.
Young</hi>, Political Arithmetics (1774), 1, ch. 7. <hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>, on the
other hand, Discourses (1752), No. 4 (on interest), shows, that the rate of interest is
dependent, not as <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi> supposed, on the abundance or scarcity
of money, but on the state of profit and on the relation between the demand and supply
of capital. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>J. Massie</hi>, An Essay on the governing
Causes of the Rate of Interest (1750). <hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, Dialogue sur
le Commerce, 173 (ed. Daire), shows that he had a very clear conception of the operation,
and of the principal component parts of capital. <hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Sur la
Formation et la Distribution des Richesses, § 14, 54-79, came very near the truth, and yet
missed it. He recognized the necessity of advances which, as a rule, are the
result of saving, in every case of production. He also distinguishes in the
product of the soil, besides the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>produit
net</foreign> and the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>subsistance du
laboureur</foreign>, the <hi rend='italic'>profit</hi> of the latter. He likewise
points out a great number of differences between the <q>price of money</q> considered
in its relation to trade, and in its relation to loans. He explains the interest on
capital, as <hi rend='italic'>Schröder</hi>, in his Schatz-und Rentkammer, 231, and
<hi rend='italic'>Benjamin Franklin</hi>, in his Inquiry into the Nature of a Paper
Currency (1729) had done before, by the fact that the owner of capital can purchase a
piece of land with his capital, and thus draw an income without working. Money, he
said, was indeed not productive, but neither was any other thing that could be loaned
or leased, with the exception of land and cattle. <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>
deserves the greatest credit for his analysis of the idea of capital, although he
opposes <q>capital</q> to what the Germans call capital-in-use, the <q>stock for
immediate consumption.</q> When <hi rend='italic'>Canard</hi>, Principes d'Economie
politique (1801) and <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Cours pratique, 1828, I, 285,
included man's power of labor in capital, they took a retrograde step. <q>Labour is
Capital, primary and fundamental.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Colton</hi>, 275. Every
grown-up individual, says <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, Principles, 1825, II, ch.
2, may be looked upon as a machine which has cost several years of continued
care and a considerable sum for its construction. It is only another
side of this same perversity, when <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi> seeks to force
the results produced by animals and machines into the definition of labor.
<hi rend='italic'>Schlozer</hi>, Anfangsgründe (1805), I, 21, goes so far as to
call the soul, raw material, which receives productive power from the
labor of the teacher! For a calculation of the money value of man in
the different ages of life, see Statis. Journ. XVI, 43 ff. See, on
the other hand, <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Definitions, ch. 7;
and <hi rend='italic'>Rossi</hi>, in the Journal des Economistes, VI, 113.
Nor does the view of <hi rend='italic'>Ganilh</hi>, Systèmes d'Economie politique
(1809), I, 243; of <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi>, Concordia, 93 ff., 211; of
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, <q>Staatswirth</q> Untersuchungen, No. 3; of
<hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>, Liberté du Travail, L. VI; of
<hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Carey</hi> and others, who
include pieces of land in themselves under the head of capital, seem to be
better founded. <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi> defines capital the durable basis
of every utility possessed of value in exchange. <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>
reckons land as nature offers it to us, among <emph>free</emph> goods. From the
moment that labor and capital are spent upon it, it becomes immovable capital,
but he concedes that it still preserves many essential points which distinguish
it from other capital. (N. Œk. Theorie der ausschliessenden Absatzverhältnisse, 1867,
65 ff., 89 ff.) These differences appear to me to be still more important than that
which land and capital have in common; especially as the historic development of
their relations proceeds for the most part in opposite directions. Thus, for
instance, as civilization advances, land is wont to become dearer and capital
cheaper. How difficult would it be to introduce clearness into the ideas of
<emph>intensive</emph> and <emph>extensive</emph> agriculture, if land were accounted
capital! And it is not only always theoretically, but also very often, in practice,
possible to separate the value of a given piece of land from the most durable
capital-improvements (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Kapitalmeliorationen</foreign>) made on it. It is only
necessary to call to mind the area of buildings.</note> we call every product laid
by for purposes of further production. (§ 220).<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Marx</hi> makes a very arbitrary assertion when he says that only the
capital operating in trade, and even only that operating in trade where money is
used as the instrument of exchange, can properly be called capital; and that,
therefore, the modern biography of capital dates only from the 16th century,
(Das Kapital I, 106 ff.)</note>
</p>

<pb n='151'/><anchor id='Pg151'/>

<p>
Hence, the capital of a nation consists especially of the following
classes of goods:
</p>

<pb n='152'/><anchor id='Pg152'/>

<p>
A. <hi rend='italic'>Soil-improvements</hi>, for instance, drainage and irrigation
works, dikes, hedges etc., which are, indeed, sometimes so far
part of the land itself that it is difficult to distinguish them
from it.<note place='foot'>See, on the other hand, <hi rend='italic'>Wolkoff</hi>,
Lectures d'Economie politique rationelle, 167.</note>
To this class belong all permanent plantations.
</p>

<p>
B. <hi rend='italic'>Buildings</hi>, which embrace workshops and storehouses
as well as dwellings; also artificial roads of all kinds.
</p>

<p>
C. <hi rend='italic'>Tools, machines and utensils</hi> of every
description;<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi> (II ed., 238 ff.)
distinguishes especially <hi rend='italic'>preparatory contrivances</hi> auxiliary to
labor, such as stationary structures etc., vessels, tools, machines and instruments for
measuring etc.</note> the
latter especially for personal service, and for the preservation
and transportation of other goods. A machine is distinguished
from a tool in that the moving power of the former is not communicated
to it immediately by the human body, which only
directs it; while the latter serves as a species of equipment, or
as a better substitute for some member of man's body.<note place='foot'>Thus, for
instance, the plow and the gun are machines, the spade and the
blow-pipe are tools. A hammer may be considered as a hard, insensible fist;
the bellows as a pair of very strong and durable lungs. Tongs take the
place of fingers, just as a spoon does of the empty hand, and the knife the
place of the teeth. A great number of machines, on the other hand, may
be compared to a complete workman. Thus, the action of the mill which
grinds grain has very little resemblance to the blowing of the wind or the
running of the water, whereas the rising and falling of the pestle in the
small mortar for throwing grenades corresponds to the motion of the arm.
(<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch I, § 125.) The infinite number of
functions of which our members are capable is related to their inability
to attain alone the greater number of their ends. Hence animals which
require no tools can undertake to achieve very few things. <q>Man is a
tool-making animal.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>B. Franklin.</hi>)</note> To
be of advantage, these three kinds of capital must save more
labor or fatigue than it has cost to produce them. Tools are,
however, older than machines. The aborigines of Australia
used only a lance and a club in hunting; the somewhat more
civilized American Indians, the bow and arrow; Europeans
use firearms: in all of which a gradual progress is observable.
Of the blind forces which communicate motion to machines,
water was the first used, then the wind, and last of all,
steam.<note place='foot'>This is seen most clearly in the history of
the grinding of corn. In the time of Moses, and even of Homer,
there were only hand-mills, and originally only mortars.
Later, mills set in motion by horse-power were employed.
Shortly after Cicero's time, mills driven by water-power came into use.
<hi rend='italic'>Brunck</hi>, Analecta, II, 119, Ep. 39. Mills built
on pontoons do not date farther back than the time of Belisarius.
Wind-mills have been known since the ninth century; Dutch wind-mills,
only since the middle of the 16th century. See <hi rend='italic'>Beckman</hi>,
Beiträge zur Geschichte der Erfindungen II, I ff.</note>
</p>

<pb n='153'/><anchor id='Pg153'/>

<p>
D. <hi rend='italic'>Useful and laboring animals</hi>, in so far as they are raised,
fed and developed by human care.
</p>

<p>
E. <hi rend='italic'>Materials for transformation</hi> (<foreign lang='de'
rend='italic'>Verwandlungsstoffe</foreign>): either
the principal material which constitutes the essential substance
of a new product, the yarn of the weaver for instance, the
raw wool, silk or cotton of the spinner; or the secondary material
which, indeed, enters into the work, but only for purposes
of ornamentation, as gold-leaf, lac, colors etc.
</p>

<p>
F. <hi rend='italic'>Auxiliary substances</hi>, which are consumed in production,
but do not constitute a visible part of the raw product,<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, Polit., 280.</note> as coal
in a smithy, powder in the chase or in mining, muriatic acid,
in the preparation of gelatin, chlorine in bleaching etc.
</p>

<p>
G. <hi rend='italic'>Means of subsistence</hi> for the producers, which are advanced
to them until production is complete.
</p>

<p>
H. <hi rend='italic'>Commercial stock</hi>, which the merchant keeps always on
hand to meet the wants of his customers.
</p>

<p>
I. <hi rend='italic'>Money</hi> as the principal tool in every trade that is made.
</p>

<p>
K. There is also what may be called <hi rend='italic'>incorporeal capital</hi>
(quasi-capital according to <hi rend='italic'>Schmitthenner</hi>), which is as much the
result of production as any other capital, and is used in production,
<pb n='154'/><anchor id='Pg154'/>
but which, for the most part, is not exhausted by use.
There are species of this kind of capital which may be transferred,
as for instance, the good will of a well-established firm.
Others are as inseparably connected with human capacity for
labor as soil-improvements with a piece of land; e.g., the
greater dexterity acquired by a workman through scientific
study, or the greater confidence he has acquired by long trial.<note place='foot'>Thus,
<hi rend='italic'>Ganilh</hi>, Théorie de l'Economie politique I, 133, calls the
knowledge, talents and probity of merchants, as well as their reputation, valuable
parts of their capital in trade. See, also, <hi rend='italic'>Möser</hi>, Patriot. Ph.
II, 26. See some happy observations on the intellectual capital of nations, as consisting
of <q>known and unknown preparatory labor through their history,</q> in
<hi rend='italic'>Lotze</hi>, Mikrokosomos II, 353 seq.</note>
The state itself is the most important incorporeal capital of
every nation, since it is clearly indispensable, at least indirectly,
to economic production.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Dietzel</hi>,
System der Staatsanleihen (1856), 71 ff. And, earlier yet, <hi rend='italic'>Ad.
Müller</hi> had looked upon taxes not in the light of an insurance premium,
but as <q>the interest of the invisible and yet absolutely necessary intellectual
capital of the nation.</q> (Elemente, III, 75.) Of course, the State is much more
than a species of capital; just as a Gothic cathedral is something more than a
piece of masonry, but does not on that account cease to be a piece of masonry.</note>
</p>

<p>
The greater portion of the national capital is in a state of
constant transformation. It is being continually destroyed and
reproduced. But from the stand-point of private economy,
as well as from that of the whole people, we say that capital
is preserved, increased or diminished according as its value is
preserved, increased or diminished.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>,
Traité d'Economie Politique I, ch. 10. Only think of what
is known in physiology as the change or transformation of matter
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Stoffwechsel!</foreign>).</note>
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Pretium succedit in locum
roi et res in locum pretii.</foreign> <q>The greater part in value of
the wealth now existing in England, has been produced by human
hands within the last twelve months. A very small proportion
indeed of that large aggregate was in existence ten
years ago; of the present productive capital of the country,
scarcely any part except farm-houses and a few ships and machines;
<pb n='155'/><anchor id='Pg155'/>
and even these would not, in most cases, have survived
so long, if fresh labor had not been employed within
that period in putting them into repair.... Capital is kept
in existence from age to age like population, not by preservation,
but by reproduction.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>.)
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XLIII. Capital.&mdash;Productive Capital.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_43"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLIII.</head>
<head>Capital.&mdash;Productive Capital.</head>

<p>
Capital, according to the employment that can be given it,
may be divided into such as affects the production of material
goods, and such as affects personal goods or useful relations.
The former, under the name of productive capital, is, in recent
politico-economical literature, usually opposed to capital in
use.<note place='foot'>Productive capital has been rendered into German by the word
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Erwerbstamm</foreign>, by the author of
<q>Staatswirthschaft nach Naturgesetzen,</q> 1819. <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>,
Definitions, ch. 10, and <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, I, § 51, call productive
capital alone, capital. According to <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, goods lose
their quality of capital as soon as they come into the hands of a consumer.
<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, N. Œk., II, aufl., 59, calls capital in use
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Genussvermögen</foreign> (resources intended
for enjoyment) and productive capital, <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Kapitalvermögen</foreign> (capital-resources). On the other
hand, <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité, I, 13; <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>,
Principles, II, 2, 3, <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatswirthschaft. Untersuchungen,
p. 60 ff., and <hi rend='italic'>v. Mangoldt</hi>, Volkswirthschaftslehre, 122, divide
capital into capital in use and productive capital, according as it provides the
possessor with that which he may turn to account directly or indirectly by becoming the
owner of goods through its means. <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi> distinguishes between
ὄργανα and κτήματα, the former relating to ποίησις; for instance, a shuttle; the latter
to πράξις, as, for instance, bedding and articles of dress. (Polit., I, 2, 5.)</note>
Evidently any one of the two kinds of capital mentioned
above, may be used for both purposes.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance, class A
embraces parks and forests; B, theaters, churches, manufactories, arsenals, granaries,
public walks and roads. Walks can, besides, be used for the cultivation of fruit, and
roads for pleasure trips.</note> Indeed, the two
classes are, in many respects, coincident. Thus, a livery-stable
carriage or a circulating library is productive capital to its
proprietor, and capital in use<note place='foot'>Translated <q>capital de
consommation</q> by Wolowski, p. 96 of his Roscher's
Principles.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Translator's note.</hi></note>
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Gebrauchskapital</foreign>) to the nation
<pb n='156'/><anchor id='Pg156'/>
in general; although the circulating library from which an
Arkwright obtains technic information, or the livery-stable
vehicle which carries a Borsig to his counting-room, has certainly
been used in the production of material goods. Almost
all capital in use may be converted into productive capital,
and hence, the former might be called quiescent capital, and
the latter working capital.<note place='foot'>Dead, or better, dormant
capital is such productive capital as, for the time being,
remains unused, and which, therefore, does not yield even personal enjoyment.
The sum total of this kind of capital is very much diminished by
the agency of savings banks. Loaned capital which has been employed unproductively
evidently constitutes no longer a part of the wealth of a people.
See <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § 189.</note> One of the principal differences
between productive capital and capital in use is, that the former,
even when most judiciously employed, does not so immediately
replace itself, as the latter, by its returns.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Wolkoff</hi> is so far right, when in his Lectures, p. 142,
he calls the return of capital in use not <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>revenu</foreign>, but <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>déstruction graduelle</foreign>. <hi
rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi> is right, too, and entirely so, when he says
that only such an increase of the property, intended for
enjoyment simply, is anti-economic, as does not make the personal
capacities of labor (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Arbeitsvermögen</foreign>) as much more productive than
they would otherwise be. N. Œk., II, aufl., 224.</note> On the other
hand, the real dividing line between capital in use, and objects
consumed which are not capital, is, and it is in complete harmony
with our definition of capital, that the latter are subject
not only to a more speedy destruction and one which is always
contemplated, while in the case of the former, its destruction
is only the unintended reverse-side of its use.
</p>

<p>
Among a highly civilized people, a great amount of capital
in use, as compared with the productive capital of the country,
may be considered a sure sign of great wealth. When this
is the case, the people, without losing the desire of further acquisition,
think that they have enough to richly enjoy the
present. I need only call to mind the munificence displayed
by the middle classes in England, in their silver plate and
other domestic utensils. But the people of Russia, and Mexico
also, can make no mean display of silverware.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, N. Espange, II, ch. 17; <hi rend='italic'>v.
Schlözer</hi>, Anfangsgründe, II, 109. Ausland, 140, No. 313. On the
extraordinary wealth of even Russian peasant women in pearls, see
<hi rend='italic'>v. Haxthausen</hi>, Studien, 87, 309.</note> Here luxury
<pb n='157'/><anchor id='Pg157'/>
is only a symptom of the disinclination or inability of the
inhabitants of the country to use their capital in the production
of wealth. How much richer would Spain be to-day, if it had
employed the idle capital spent in the ornamentation of its
churches in constructing roads and canals!<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Townsend</hi>, Journey in Spain, I, 115, 310. In the patriarchal age of the
Jews, there was a relatively very large quantity of ornamental objects in
gold and silver: <hi rend='italic'>Michælis</hi>, De Pretiis Rerum apud Hebræos, in
the Comm. Soc. Götting., III, 151 ff., 160. Conservative Sparta, in the middle age of its
history, was certainly not rich, and yet it had more gold and silver than any
other Grecian state: <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, Alcib., I, 123. According to
<hi rend='italic'>St. John</hi>, The Hellenes, III, 142, the ancients
had relatively much more of the precious metals in the form of
objects for ornament than the moderns. The Romans, with their usual
good sense, did not make use of silver as an article of luxury
until they had attained great wealth. See <hi rend='italic'>Cato</hi>, R.
R., ch. 23, and <hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi>, De Vita beata,
ch. 21. Then the Carthaginian ambassadors railed at
their hosts because they found the same pieces of table silver in all the houses
to which they were invited. The younger Scipio, even, did not possess more
relatively than 32 pounds of silver ware. <hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>,
Römische Geschichte, II, 383. The relatively great importance of the
stores for domestic use, nevertheless, runs through the whole of
Roman history. The title <hi rend='italic'>de penu legato</hi>,
in the Pandects (Digest, XXIII, 9), points to this, during the reign of the
emperors, and in earlier times, the derivation of <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>penates</foreign> from <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>penu</foreign>. See <hi rend='italic'>Rodbertus</hi>,
in <hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrbuch, 1870, I, 365. Immense importance of the
ring in the old north countries: <hi rend='italic'>Weinhold</hi>, Altnord. Leben,
184 ff. The age of chivalry was very rich in silver plate, cups, basins, etc.
<hi rend='italic'>Büsching</hi>, Ritterzeit und Ritterwesen, II, 137.
<hi rend='italic'>Anderson</hi>, Origin of Commerce, a. 1386. <hi rend='italic'>Lord
Burleigh</hi>, in the age of queen Elizabeth, left after him between fourteen and
fifteen thousand pounds sterling in silver ware; that is almost as much as
the rest of his whole estate; and, it would seem, that for a man of his rank,
even this was not considered a great deal. <hi rend='italic'>Collins'</hi>
Life of B., 44. According to <hi rend='italic'>Giustiniani</hi>, cardinal Wolsey
owned articles of silver to the value of 1,500,000 ducats, and the greater number
of the lords of the time were equally well provided with them.</note> Most nations in
a low state of civilization suffer from the absence of legal guarantees.
Each one is compelled to turn his property into a
shape in which it can be most easily transferred from one
place to another and hidden. This is the principal reason why
<pb n='158'/><anchor id='Pg158'/>
the Orientals possess, relatively speaking, so many precious
stones and so much of the precious metals. The same cause
accounts for the simplicity of their dwellings.<note place='foot'>The Bedouins
are fond of decorating their wives and children with all
the jewels that they possess, both on holidays and other days, so that they
sometimes have four or six bracelets on each arm and fifteen ear-rings in
each ear. <hi rend='italic'>Burckhardt</hi>, Bemerkungen, 188.
<hi rend='italic'>Wellsted</hi> (Roederer's translation),
I, 224. In Asia Minor, girls wear their whole dowry in the shape of personal
ornaments. <hi rend='italic'>Belgiojoso</hi>, Revue des deux Mondes, Feb. 1, 1855. In
East India even the most wretched towns have their silver workers. The
emirs of Scinde, with an annual income of £300,000, had a treasure worth
£20,000,000, nearly £7,000,000 of which were in jewels.
<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde VII, p. 185.
On the upper Ganges more jewels and other ornaments are
worn than on the lower, where the wealthy prefer to spend their capital on
landed estates. <hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, VI, 1143.</note> On the other
hand, productive capital is to be found in the greatest proportion
among civilized nations which are making very rapid strides
towards wealth, the people of the United States, for instance.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XLIV. Capital.&mdash;Fixed Capital, And Circulating
Capital.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLIV.</head>
<head>Capital.&mdash;Fixed Capital, And Circulating Capital.</head>

<p>
Capital, according as it is employed, is divided into fixed
capital and circulating capital. Fixed capital may be used
many times in production by its owner; circulating capital
only once. The value of the latter kind of capital passes
wholly into the value of the new product. In the case of the
former kind of capital, only the value of its use passes into the
new product. (<hi rend='italic'>Hermann.</hi>) Hence, the farmer's beasts of
burthen belong to his fixed capital; their food, and his cattle
intended for the slaughter, to his circulating capital. In a
manufactory of machines, a boiler intended for sale is circulating
capital; while a similar one, held in reserve for the machines
used in production, is fixed capital. Ricardo attributes
a somewhat different meaning to these two terms: he calls
fixed capital that which is slowly consumed, and circulating,
<pb n='159'/><anchor id='Pg159'/>
that which disappears rapidly.<note place='foot'>The first beginnings of this
division are to be found in <hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi> (Analyse du Tableau
économique, 1758), in which he develops the difference between <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>avances primitives</foreign> and <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>avances annuelles</foreign>. See also <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi>, W. of N., II, ch. 1, who, however, reduces the difference between them
mainly to the relations of possession, and hence includes grain and seed in fixed
capital. <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatsw. Untersuch., 269 ff.;
<hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, Principles, ch. 1, sec. 2;
<hi rend='italic'>Schmitt-henner</hi>, Staatswissenschaften, I, 387, divides capital
into I, <hi rend='italic'>infungible</hi>, that is, 1, fixed in the strict sense of
the word; 2, transportation-capital; II, <hi rend='italic'>fungible</hi>,
1, transformable capital; a, material (raw material, auxiliary material etc.),
b, formed products; 2, circulating capital; a, wares; b, money.
<hi rend='italic'>A. Walker</hi>, S. of W., 57, calls circulating capital that which
may be easily transferred from one branch of production to another; fixed, that which
can be used with advantage only for the purpose for which it was originally
intended.</note> Fixed capital is, indeed, produced
and preserved by circulating capital; but it is, for the
most part, transformed again into circulating capital.<note place='foot'>Old wood-work
is burned; old iron utensils sold; also houses when pulled
down. <hi rend='italic'>Emminghaus</hi>, Allg. Gewerbelehre, 1868, 175.</note> Besides,
it is only by means of the latter, that the former can be
productively employed.<note place='foot'>If the Mongols, for instance, should
despoil China of all its moveable property with the exception of its buried money,
its immovable property would become productive only from the time that that money would
be used to secure other moveable articles. In any case, the production would be
proportioned only to the borrowed seed, cattle, etc. (<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>,
Richesses commerciale, 1803, I, p. 61.)</note> The relative importance of fixed
and circulating capital to a country depends upon whether the
country is an advanced or only an advancing one. A people
with very much and very fixed capital are indeed very rich;
but run the risk of offering many vulnerable points to an
aggressive enemy, and of thus turning the easily jeopardized
mammon into an idol. To make a passing sacrifice of the
country that the people and the state may be saved, as did the
Scythians against Darius, the Athenians against Xerxes, and
the Russians against Napoleon, becomes difficult, in proportion
as the nation has become richer in fixed capital.<note place='foot'>That the
Athenians left everything in the lurch to oppose Xerxes, much
more readily than under Pericles, even, the flat country of Attica.
<hi rend='italic'>Büchsenschütz</hi> (Besitz und Erwerb im griech. Alterthum, 589)
explains by the fact that in the interval between the two periods,
fixed capital increased largely. In rude ages under the appellation of
a community or nation was understood a number of men; and the state,
while its members remained, was accounted entire. With polished and mercantile
states, the case is sometimes reverted. The nation is a territory cultivated and
improved by its owners; destroy the possession even while the master remains, the
state is undone. <hi rend='italic'>Ferguson</hi>, Hist. of civil Society, V, 4;
<hi rend='italic'>v. Mangoldt</hi>, Volkswirthschaftslehre, 159. Fixed capital is
not so sure of being completely used up as circulating. On this point see
<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, N. Œk., 53.</note> But, as
<pb n='160'/><anchor id='Pg160'/>
the destination of the latter is changed with much greater difficulty
than that of circulating capital, highly cultivated nations
would find it very hard to satisfy new wants, if they
could not always appropriate the results of additional savings
to the production of new fixed capital.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XLV. Capital.&mdash;How It Originates.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLV.'/>
<anchor id="Section_45"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLV.</head>
<head>Capital.&mdash;How It Originates.</head>

<p>
Capital is mainly the result of saving which withdraws new
products from the immediate enjoyment-consumption of their
possessor, and preserves them, or at least their value, to serve
as the basis of a lasting use.<note place='foot'>If the aggregate productive
activity of man be designated by the word labor (just as everything
produced on a piece of land is inaccurately called its product),
then all capital may be considered as the unconsumed result of
labor. The recent socialistic theory that considers capital as the wages
which have been earned but not paid, is a gross misconception of this truth.
This is the origin only of the capital of oppressors and deceivers, and of theirs
only in part. See <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § 189.</note> As capital represents the
solidarity of the economic past, present and future, it, as a rule,
reaches back into the past and forward into the future, through
a period of time longer in proportion as its amount and efficiency
are greater.<note place='foot'><q>While we are clothed in our winter garments, the
spring stuffs are already in the shops of retail dealers; the light material of next
summer's wear is already manufacturing, and the wool for our next winter's clothing
spun.</q> Think of the study in advance which the physician must have gone through,
whom we summon to us at a moment's notice! <hi rend='italic'>Menger</hi>, Grundsätze,
I, § 33. seq.</note> Those producers, too, whose products perish
rapidly may, also, effect savings by exchanging their products
<pb n='161'/><anchor id='Pg161'/>
and capitalizing their counter-value. Thus, the actor, whose
playing leaves after it nothing but a memory, may use the
wheat received by him from a farmer who came to listen to
him, in the employment of an iron-worker, and invest the
product permanently in a railroad. The transformation may
be effected by means of money, bonds etc., but it is none the
less real on that account. Order, foresight and self-restraint
are the intellectual conditions precedent of saving and capital.
The childish and hail-fellow-well-met disposition which cares
only for the present is inimical to it. True, the desire of saving
can be developed only where there are legal guarantees to
ownership;<note place='foot'>Thus in dangerous callings, as for instance, among soldiers
and sailors, there is very little saving. The same may be said of times of plague. See
<hi rend='italic'>J. Rae</hi>, New Principles on the Subject of Political Economy,
1834.</note> guarantees which are both the conditions precedent
and the effect of all economic civilization.<note place='foot'>That we keep our
property under lock and key, while it was customary in Plato's time to seal it up, is
in itself a great advance. See <hi rend='italic'>Becker</hi>, Charicles, I, 202 seq.
Earlier yet, artificial knots were used. <hi rend='italic'>Homer</hi>, Odyss.
VII, 443.</note> The Indians,
Esquimaux etc., had to be taught for the first time by the missionaries
and merchants&mdash;and it was with the greatest difficulty
it was done&mdash;to save their booty, and spare the natural sources
of their acquisition. Originally, they were, in the heat and
excitement of their wild hunting and fishing, wont to destroy
on the spot what they could not enjoy in the moment.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Hearne</hi>, Reise, nach Prinzwalesfort, 43, 58, 119.
<hi rend='italic'>Barrow von Sprengel</hi>, 282. <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>,
Relation historique, II, 245. Ausland, 1844, No. 359; 1845, No. 84.
<hi rend='italic'>Stein-Wappüus</hi>, Handbuch der Geographie, I, 310. For proof that
the clergy by preaching self denial contributed largely to the creation
of capital in the earlier part of medieval history, see <hi rend='italic'>Guórard</hi>,
Polyptiques d'Irminon Préf., 13.</note> In the
lowest stages of civilization, the first saving of capital of any
importance is effected frequently through robbery or in the
way of slavery.<note place='foot'>On the inevitableness of slavery, where capital
is needed, and no one cares to save, see <hi rend='italic'>de Metz Noblet</hi>,
Phénomènes économiques, I, 306.</note> In both cases, it is the stronger who compel
the weaker to consume less than they produce. See <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>,
<pb n='162'/><anchor id='Pg162'/>
§ <ref target="Section_68">68</ref>. Where civilization is at its highest, the inclination
to save, as a rule, is very marked.<note place='foot'>The origination of capital by
<q>social connexions</q> (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>gesellschaftliche
Zusammenhänge</foreign>) <hi rend='italic'>Lassalle</hi> (Bastiat-Schultze, 92, 98)
exaggerates into the absurdity that no capital was ever saved. This is in part related
to his confounding land with capital (103 seq.). On the other hand,
<hi rend='italic'>P. L.</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>v. Lilienfeld</hi>), Gedanken
über die Staatswissenschaft der Zukunft (1873), distinguishes between
the external and internal creation of capital in human society; the latter based
on the condition of every organic being, by virtue of which the present is
generated by the past, and generates the future. The intercellular substance
of plants, the honey-comb of bees, and the blood in the animal body, correspond
to the capital of a nation.</note> It begins to decline where
a people are themselves declining in civilization, and especially
where legal guarantees have lost their force.
</p>

<p>
But capital may be increased even without personal sacrifice;
as for instance, by mere occupation, as of certain goods,
not hitherto recognized as such. Thus, also, by the establishment
of valuable relations, the advantages of which either become
the common good of all; or which, because at the
exclusive command of one individual, obtain value in exchange.
The progress of civilization itself may increase the
value of existing capital. Thus, for instance, a house, considered
as capital, may double in value if a frequented street be
opened in its neighborhood. To this category belong all improvements
in the arts which enable existing capital to achieve
more than it could before. The invention of the compass increased
the value of the capital employed in the merchant
marine to an extent that cannot be calculated.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, St. Untersuchungen, 289 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>List</hi>,
System der politischen Œkonomie, I, 325 ff. Thus, for instance, capitalization among a
race of hunters may be continued longest by the creation of herds; that of a race of
shepherds by the building of houses, and by land-improvements; that of an
agricultural people by the establishment of trades, artificial roads, etc. As
to how, in general the accumulation of goods to any great extent, supposes
exchange, and as to how, first of all, with exchange through the existence of
a superabundance wealth may originate, see <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, loc. cit.,
II, Aufl., 25 ff.</note> The increase
of capital effected by saving soon finds a limit unless such
limit is widened by the progress of civilization.<note place='foot'>The annual increase
of the capital of France during the later years of
Louis Philippe's reign, was estimated at from 200 to 300 million of francs;
during the best years of Napoleon III's reign, at 600 million. Journal des
Econ., Nov., 1861, 170. The capital of the British empire, judging from the
statistics of the income tax, increased from 1843 to 1853, in Great Britain
alone, at least £42,000,000 yearly; from 1854 to 1860, in the whole empire, at
least £114,000,000; and in 1863 alone by £130,000,000. London Statis. Journal,
1864, 118 ff. A war carried on on English soil would doubtless be more
destructive of capital than one waged in Russia; but Russia would recover
from one like that of 1854-55 with much greater difficulty because of the
small tendency of its people to amass capital. In countries in which the
middle classes preponderate, the influence of the amassing of capital on foreign
politics is one that favors peace. In despotic or democratic countries, it
may as readily favor war.</note><note place='foot'>The <q>absolute formation</q> of
capital above described is, of course, the only
one in the general economy of mankind. In the economy of individuals, we
frequently meet with another which is only <q>relative,</q> as when the increase
of one's resources is attended by as great or even greater decrease of another's.
This is the case, for instance, where privileges or monopolies are granted.
The same phenomenon is found also in the intercourse of economies of different
nations. <hi rend='italic'>Supra</hi>, § <ref target="Section_64">64</ref>.</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='163'/><anchor id='Pg163'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter II. Co-Operation Of The Factors.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter II.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter II.</head>
<head>Co-Operation Of The Factors.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XLVI. The Productive Coöperation Of The Three
Factors.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLVI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLVI.</head>
<head>The Productive Coöperation Of The Three Factors.</head>

<p>
All economic production generally demands the coöperation
of the three factors: external nature, labor and capital.
But with the political economist, labor is the principal thing;
and not merely because all capital presupposes labor, nor because
every combination of the three factors is an act of labor;
<pb n='164'/><anchor id='Pg164'/>
but, in general, because <q>the human mind's idea of means and
ends makes all goods goods for the first time.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Hufeland.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
Leaving the free forces of nature, surrounded by which we
live and work, out of consideration, and also the fact that all
raw material is due to nature, land is the indispensable foundation
of all economy. But how little can unassisted nature do
to satisfy human wants! How much less to produce goods
possessed of value in exchange! A virgin forest, for instance,
sold in its natural state, has, indeed, value in exchange, but
only because it is taken into account that it can be cleared,
and that there are means of transportation already existing.<note place='foot'>Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, De Off., II, 3, 4. Nature may indeed produce mere value
in use without the coöperation of labor, in the narrow sense of the word; as, for
instance, a forest which protects a district from avalanches etc. But <q>everything
which has been transformed into goods tends constantly to return to its
natural state, and to withdraw itself from the life of goods.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Stein</hi>, Lehrbuch.</note>
The greater part of the forces of nature are latent to nomads
and nations of hunters. When labor develops, they are set
free to assist it.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>List</hi>, System
der Polit. Œkon. But see also the very fine discussion
of <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>, Principles, IV, ch. VI, 2, on the dreariness of
nature, when taken exclusive possession of by man; <q>with every rood of land
brought into cultivation which is capable of growing food for human beings;
every flowery waste or natural pasture plowed up; all quadrupeds or birds
which are not domesticated for man's use, exterminated as his rivals for food;
every hedgerow or superfluous tree rooted out, and scarcely a place left where
a wild shrub or flower could grow, without being eradicated as a weed, in the
name of improved agriculture.</q></note> It is very seldom that any thing can be produced
without capital. Even the poorest gatherer of wild berries
needs a basket and must be clothed.<note place='foot'>In Paris, in 1820, the necessary
tools of a rag-gatherer cost 6-¼ francs.
<hi rend='italic'>Garnier</hi>, Elements d'Econ.-polit., 43.</note> Were there no
capital, every individual would have to begin at the very beginning
every moment. Life would be possible only in a
tropical climate. No man, since the days of Adam, has been
able to labor, except on the condition that a considerable advance
of capital had been made upon him. There is not a
nail in all England, says Senior, which cannot directly or indirectly
<pb n='165'/><anchor id='Pg165'/>
directly be traced back to savings made before the Norman
conquest.<note place='foot'>It is not to be overlooked that all labor expended for a
distant end also falls under the head of capital. See <hi rend='italic'>Droz</hi>,
Economie politique, 1829, I, 6.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1="Section XLVII. Productive Co-Operation Of The Three Factors.
The Three Great Periods Of A Nation's Economy."/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLVII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_47"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLVII.</head>
<head>Productive Co-Operation Of The Three Factors.
The Three Great Periods Of A Nation's Economy.</head>

<p>
The relation of the three factors to one another is necessarily
very different in different branches of production. For instance,
in the case of cattle-raising on a prairie, labor does
very little, land almost everything. Hence an extensive, thinly
populated country is best adapted to this species of production.
But where land is scarce, as in wealthy and populous
cities, human activity should be directed into those branches
of industry which need capital and labor, as manufactures and
the trades. (§ 198.)<note place='foot'>For a good exposition as
to how England has need of more agricultural products,
the East Indies of more capital, and the West Indies of more labor,
see <hi rend='italic'>Fawcett</hi>, Manual of P. E., 110.</note>
</p>

<p>
Looked at from this point of view, the history of the development
of the public economy of every people may be
divided into three great periods. In the earliest period, nature
is the element that predominates everywhere. The woods,
waters and meadows afford food almost spontaneously to a
scanty population. This is the Saturnian or golden age of
which the sagas tell. Wealth, properly speaking, does not
exist here, and those who do not possess a piece of land run
the risk of becoming completely dependent on, or even the
slave of a land owner. In the second period, that through
which all modern nations have passed since the later part of
the middle ages, the element, labor, acquires an ever increasing
importance. Labor favors the origin and development of
cities as well as exclusive rights, the rights of boroughs and
guilds by means of which labor is, so to speak, capitalized. A
<pb n='166'/><anchor id='Pg166'/>
middle class is formed intermediate between the serfs and the
owners of the soil. In the third period, capital, if we may so
speak, gives tone to everything. The value of land is vastly
increased by the expenditure of capital on it, and in manufactures,
machine labor preponderates over the labor of the human
hand.<note place='foot'>It is a very significant fact, that, at present, in certain
European countries, in Germany for instance, the laborer is called a
<hi rend='italic'>taker</hi>, and the capitalist a <hi rend='italic'>giver</hi> of work.
The expressions employed by <hi rend='italic'>Canard</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Say</hi>
and <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, teach a similar lesson.</note>
The national wealth undergoes a daily increase;
and it is the <q>capitalism</q> which first gives an independent
existence to the economic activity of man; just in the same
way that law is, as it were, emancipated from land-ownership,
from the church and the family only in the constitutional
state (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Rechtsstaat</foreign>).<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, Kapitalismus und Socialismus, 124 seq.</note>
But, during this period, the
middle class with its moderate ease and solid culture may decrease
in numbers, and colossal wealth be confronted with the
most abject misery.<note place='foot'>It is evident, that, absolutely considered,
the predominating factor of an
earlier period may continue to increase during the following: and, as a rule,
it does continue to increase.</note> Although these three periods may be
shown to exist in the history of all highly civilized countries,
the nations of antiquity, relatively speaking, never advanced
far beyond the second, even in their palmiest days. A great
part of that which is accomplished among us by means of capital
and of machines, the Greeks and Romans performed by
the labor of slaves. Leaving Christianity out of the question,
nearly all the minor differences between the public economy of
the ancients and that of the moderns may be reduced to this
fundamental distinction.<note place='foot'>I need cite only the instance of the
slaves, who called out the hours, thus performing the functions of a clock:
<hi rend='italic'>Martial</hi>, VIII. 67; <hi rend='italic'>Juvenal</hi>, X. 216;
<hi rend='italic'>Petron.</hi> 26; of the turning of water wheels, in Egypt and
Babylon, by human hands. <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, XVI. 738, XVII., 807.
Among the ancients, it required one shepherd, and shepherd boys besides, to take
care of twenty sheep. (<hi rend='italic'>Geopon.</hi> XVIII, 1.) In highly cultivated
regions, the number ran up to fifty. (<hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi>, adv. Euerg.
et Mnes., 1155.) It seldom passed eighty (<hi rend='italic'>Varro</hi>, De re rust.,
II. 10, 10. 2, 20), or one hundred (<hi rend='italic'>Cato</hi>, R.R. c. 10);
while, recently, five men are sufficient to take care of eighteen hundred sheep.
See <hi rend='italic'>Roscher's</hi> discourse on the relation of Political Economy
to classical antiquity, in the reports of the Royal Saxon Science Association, May, 1849.
Also <hi rend='italic'>D. Hume</hi>, Discourses, No. 10.</note><note place='foot'>The
productive power of each of the factors of production has been over-estimated
by some schools. After <hi rend='italic'>Gratian</hi> (c. i, C. XIII. qu. i), had clearly
recognized the necessary coöperation of the three elements, there was in the
one-sidedness with which the Reformers emphasized God's blessing as the
only source of wealth, a great over-estimation of the factor nature. The
Mercantile System over-estimated the factor capital, in one of its most obvious
component parts, money. In later times again: <q><foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>La terre est la source ou la matière d'où l'on tire la
ichesse; le travail de l'homme est la forme qui la produit. Tous les hommes d'un
état subsistent et s'enrichissent aux dépens des propriétaires des terres.</foreign></q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>, Sur la Nature du Commerce, 1755, I. 33,
55.) <hi rend='italic'>La terre est l'unique source des richesses.</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, Maximes générales de Gouvernement, 1758, ch. 3.)
In another place, indeed, the same writer says: <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>les revenus sont le produit des terres et des hommes
(Grains</foreign>, p. 276, Daire), and <hi rend='italic'>Mirabeau</hi> frequently laid
stress on the necessary coöperation of labor and capital. (Landwirthschaftsphilosophie,
translation by <hi rend='italic'>Wichmann,</hi> I, 5.) <hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>,
Sur la Formation et Distribution des Richesses, § 7. For an excellent refutation of
this <q>Physiocratic</q> one-sidedness, which, if all men are endowed by nature with
equal rights, leads to socialism, see <hi rend='italic'>Canard</hi>, Principes, 6.
According to <hi rend='italic'>Gioja</hi>, N. Prospetto, I. 35, the part played by labor,
in the production of <hi rend='italic'>Parmesan</hi> cheese, is a thousand times as
great as that played by the soil; and in the production of a Dutch tulip, a hundred
thousand times as great. The English are wont, similarly, to over-estimate
the relative power of labor. (<hi rend='italic'>Ponocratie</hi>, after
<hi rend='italic'>Ancillon</hi>, Essais philosophiques, 1817, II. 327.) <q>Commerce
and trade first spring from the labour of men.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>North</hi>,
Discourses upon Trade, 112.) Thus, <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi> (1690), Of Civil
Government, II, 5, 40 ff., is of opinion, that, at least 9/10 of the value of the
products of the soil, useful to man, are to be ascribed to labor, and, in the
case of most, even 99/100. And so, <hi rend='italic'>Berkeley</hi> (1735), Querist,
No. 38 seq. This view is advocated in its boldest form,&mdash;a thing unusual in the
case of the independent disciples of a great master&mdash;by
<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, Principles, II, ch. i, that it is to labor, and to
labor alone, that man owes everything that possesses any value in exchange. Similarly,
<hi rend='italic'>J. Mill</hi>, Elements (1824), III, 2. The
consequences which socialism might draw from these premises are self-evident.
<hi rend='italic'>Karl Marx's</hi> whole system, for instance, rests, without any
attempt at demonstration, on the assumption that the Ricardo school is right. Much
more moderate views are met with earlier. Thus, <hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi>, De Cive,
XIII, 14, and <hi rend='italic'>Leviath</hi>., 24 (1642 and 1651), calls
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>labor et parsimonia</foreign> necessary
sources of wealth; <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>proventus terræ et
aquæ</foreign> useful ones; and <hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>, On Taxes (1679), 47,
says: <q>Labour is the father and active principle of wealth, as lands are the mother.
Land and labour together are the sources of all wealth; without a competency of lands
there would be no subsistence, and but a very poor one without labour.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Harris</hi>, Upon Money and Coins, 1757, P.I. <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi>, also, in spite of the well known passage at the beginning
of his work, very frequently lays stress on <q>the annual produce of
land and labour.</q> (See the passages collected in <hi rend='italic'>Leser</hi>,
Begriff des Reichthums bei A.S., 97.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Leibniz, regionis
potentia consistit in terra, rebus, hominibus</hi>. (ed. Dutens, IV. 2, 531.)
<hi rend='italic'>Ricardo's</hi> school is wont to bring capital under the head of
labor, as saved-up labor. This is about as correct as to say, that all that a grown man
does, his parents had done. (<hi rend='italic'>Umpfenbach</hi>, Nat. Œk., 64.) There
is only one way in which labor, and even then the expression is not exactly correct, can
be looked upon as the only factor in production; and that is to presuppose the forces of
nature as matters of course (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>als sich von
selbst verstehend</foreign>), and to call the aggregate use made of them by the human
mind, labor. Or we might say with old <hi rend='italic'>Epicharmos</hi>, that the gods
sell all goods for labor. (<hi rend='italic'>Xenoph</hi>., Memor. II. 1.)
Moreover, even in purely intellectual productions, in poetical productions for
instance, nature, labor and experience, the culture inherited from former
ages (a kind of intellectual capital) uniformly coöperate. But how almost
completely valueless in literature are all entirely pure (empty!) productions
of the fancy!</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='167'/><anchor id='Pg167'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XLVIII. Critical History Of The Idea Of
Productiveness.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLVIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_48"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLVIII.</head>
<head>Critical History Of The Idea Of Productiveness.</head>

<p>
In this chapter, the dogma-historical (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>dogmengeschichtliche</foreign>)
part is of the utmost importance, because it treats of the connection
<pb n='168'/><anchor id='Pg168'/>
between the deepest fundamental notions and the principal
branches of practical life. It is clear that every political
economist must construct his exposition of productiveness on
his prior notions of goods and value. We must, therefore,
draw a distinction between expositions which are logical but
altogether too narrow, and wholly erroneous ones.<note place='foot'>Before
the predominance of the Mercantile System, <hi rend='italic'>Montchrétien</hi> very
cleverly called all trades: <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>parcelles et
fragments de cette sagesse divine que Dieu nous communique par le moyen de la
raisen</foreign>. By means of the three estates; <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>labourers, artisans, merchands, tout état est nourri; par eux
tout profit se fait. L'utilité règle les rangs des arts</foreign>. (Traité, 12, 45,
66.) The teaching of <hi rend='italic'>P. Gregorius Tolosanos</hi> (ob. 1597) on the
different classes of society and the different callings of men, is still more in keeping
with the present doctrine of production; only, in the moralizing tone of the time, he
speaks rather of their dignity than of their influence in creating wealth: De Rep. I,
195. See, also, the earlier views of <hi rend='italic'>Franc. Patricius</hi> (ob.
1494), De Rep. I, 4, 7, 8.</note>
</p>

<pb n='169'/><anchor id='Pg169'/>

<p>
Thus, the Mercantile System admits every mode of applying
the three factors of production, but considers them
really productive only in so far as they increase the quantity
of the precious metals possessed by the nation, either through
the agency of mining at home, or by means of foreign trade.
This view stands and falls with the altogether too limited idea
of national wealth before mentioned (§ <ref target="Section_9">9</ref>), which this system
advocated.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>A. Serra</hi>, Breve Trattato
delle Cause che possono far abbondare i Regni d'Oro d'Argento, 1613.
<hi rend='italic'>Th. Mun</hi>, England's Treasure by foreign Trade, 1664.
<hi rend='italic'>Ch. King</hi>, British Merchant or Commerce Preserved, 1721.
But, particularly, <hi rend='italic'>A.C. Leib</hi>, Von Verbesserung Land und Leuten
etc. (1708), who, from the point of view of the Mercantile System, draws a very clear
distinction between the productive and unproductive classes. See, also,
<hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § <ref target="Section_116">116</ref>. First thoroughly
refuted by <hi rend='italic'>W. Petty</hi>, Political Anatomy of Ireland, 67, 82.
Quantulumcunque concerning Money (1682). <hi rend='italic'>D. North</hi>,
Discourses upon trade (1691). See <hi rend='italic'>Roscher's</hi> Geschichte der
englischen Volkswirthschaftslehre, 77, 88, 138. And later, especially,
<hi rend='italic'>Ad. Smith</hi>, W. of N. IV., ch. 1 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith's</hi> doctrine of productive and unproductive labor is to be found already, in
this period, in <hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>, Several Essays, 127 ff. Political Anatomy,
185 ff; also, in the anonymous work, A Discourse of Trade, Coyn and Paper Credit,
London (1697), 44, 159.</note> The majority of the followers of the Mercantile
System ascribe more power to industry to attract gold and silver
from foreign parts, than to agriculture, and to the finer
kinds of industry than to the coarser; to active and direct
trade, more than to passive and indirect trade.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='170'/><anchor id='Pg170'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XLIX. Critical History Of The Idea Of
Productiveness.&mdash;The Doctrine Of The Physiocrates.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XLIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XLIX.</head>
<head>Critical History Of The Idea Of Productiveness.&mdash;The
Doctrine Of The Physiocrates.</head>

<p>
The doctrine of the Physiocrates is to be explained in part
by a very natural reaction from the narrow-heartedness of the
Mercantile System, and at the same time, by a presentiment,
misunderstood, of the true theory of rent. (§ 150 ff.). Of
the six classes of labor mentioned above (§ <ref target="Section_38">38</ref>),
those only are called productive which increase the quantity of raw material
useful for human ends. All the other classes, it matters not
how useful, are called sterile, salaried, because they draw their
income only from the superabundance of land-owners and the
workers of the soil. Tradesmen, in the narrower sense of the
term, produce only a change in the form of the material, the
higher value of which depends on the quantity of other material
consumed for the purposes of the tradesman's labor. If
any of this material is saved, the value of their products
sinks, although to the advantage of the economy of the whole
nation. In any case, industry could create no wealth, but only
make existing wealth more lasting. It might, so to speak, accumulate
the value of the quantity of food consumed during
the building of a house in the house itself.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, Dialogue sur les Travaux des Artisans, 210 ff.; 289 éd. Daire;
<hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Sur la Formation etc., § 8; <hi rend='italic'>Dupont</hi>,
Correspondence avec J.B. Say, 400, éd. Daire. <hi rend='italic'>B. Franklin</hi>, Letter
to Dr. Evans (1768), and Positions Concerning National Wealth (1769), Works ed. Sparks,
VII and II. Similarly even <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>, Oec., I, 2, says, that
commerce, wage-labor and war win from men, with or without their will; but that only
agriculture obtains booty from nature. And so <hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi> says of
merchants: <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>nihil proficiunt, nisi admodum
mentiantur</foreign>. De Off., I, 42. The same view seems to have prevailed during
the middle ages. See <hi rend='italic'>Thom. Aquin.</hi>, De Rebus publicis, II, 3, 5
seq. <hi rend='italic'>Luther</hi> entertained a like notion (Vom Kaufhandel und Wucher,
1524). He prefers agriculture to the trades. See the Irmischer edition of his works,
XXII, 284; XXXVI, 172; LXI, 352. <hi rend='italic'>Calvin</hi> considered commerce both
useful and honorable; so that <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>ex ipsius
mercatoris diligentia atque industria</foreign>, its profit may be greater than that of
agriculture. (Opp. ed. Amstelod, 1664, IX, 223.) <hi rend='italic'>Asgill</hi>, Several
Assertions proved in order to create another Species of Money than Gold (1691): <q>what
we call commodities is nothing but land severed from the soil; man deals in nothing but
earth.</q> Concerning <hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>, compare § 47, note 4. How
violent an innovation the Physiocratic theory was in its time may be inferred from what
<hi rend='italic'>Zincke</hi> writes in the Leipzig Sammlungen, X, 551 ff. (1753), p.
20, XIII, 861.</note>
</p>

<pb n='171'/><anchor id='Pg171'/>

<p>
But if tradesmen really earned, in the value of their products,
only what they had consumed during their labor, it would
be difficult for them to find employers to provide them with
capital. Everyone will acknowledge, that a Thorwaldsen and
an ordinary stone-cutter, with the same block of marble, the
same implements, the same food, would necessarily, after the
same time, turn out exceedingly different values.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, l. c., 189, does not ignore that many workmen earn more than
the cost of their necessary subsistence; but he claimed that this was a result
of a natural or legal monopoly of the same. The dearer labor was, the more
productive it seemed. Per contra, see <hi rend='italic'>Dohm</hi> on the
Physiocratic system, in the Deutsch. Museum, 1778, II, 313 ff.</note> And, even
in the case that industry should add to the raw material only
precisely the same amount of value as had been consumed by
the workmen, can it be said that the work ceases to be productive
simply because it is consumed by the workmen themselves?
If that were so, agriculture even, would, in most
countries with a low civilization, be unproductive.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Gournay</hi> (compare <hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Eloge de G., in
Guillaumin's edition, I, 266, 271 ff.), as well as <hi rend='italic'>Raynal</hi>,
Histoire des Indes, vol. X, Livre 19, spite of the
similarity of their and Quesnay's views, acknowledged on this account, the
productiveness of industry. For some remarkable examples illustrative of
how it may increase the value in exchange of raw material, see the anonymous
work, Paying Old Debts without New Taxes, London, 1723. See also
<hi rend='italic'>Algarotti</hi> (ob. 1794), 318, in <hi rend='italic'>Custodi</hi>,
Economisti classici italiani, Parte moderna,
I. Thus a cwt. of coarse cast iron is converted, in a Berlin manufactory,
into 88,440 shirt buttons worth 6-⅔ silver groschens each. Hence the value is
raised from 1-2 thalers to 19,653 thalers. The increase of the value in use
by industrial labor is self-evident.</note>
</p>

<p>
Commerce, according to the theory of the Physiocrates,
only transfers already existing wealth from one hand to another.
What the merchants gain by it is at the cost of
the nation. Hence, it is desirable that this loss should be as
<pb n='172'/><anchor id='Pg172'/>
small as possible. Hence sterility!<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>,
Dialogue sur le Commerce.</note> But, the more important
branches of business, especially wholesale trade, are connected
with a transportation of goods (<hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>), either from one place
or from one period of time, into another. Here the genuine
merchant speculates essentially on the difference of the values
in use which are afterwards greater than before.<note place='foot'>Recognized
very early by <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Contzen</hi>, Politicorum, Lib. VIII, C. 10
(1629).</note> The ice
shipped yearly from Boston to tropical lands met a much
more urgent and wide-spread want there than it would if it
had remained at home. And thus the storage of grain in
large quantities after a bountiful harvest withdraws, indeed,
an object of enjoyment from the consumption of the people;
but its sale, after a bad harvest, undoubtedly increases their
enjoyment in a much greater degree than it was before diminished.
Besides, the condition of both parties to the contract
is usually improved in all normal trade. (<hi rend='italic'>Condillac.</hi>)<note
place='foot'>This did not escape the notice of Frederick II. <hi rend='italic'>Von
Raumer</hi>, Hohenstaufen, III, 535.</note> No one
parts with exchangeable goods unless they are of less use to
him than the ones he receives in return.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Condillac</hi> acknowledges the productive power both of industry and of
commerce; and that the service rendered by the state is at least economically
indispensable. (Le Commerce et le Gouvernment, 1776, I, 6, 7, 10.) <hi
rend='italic'>Beccaria</hi>, Economia pubblica (1769 ff.), IV, 4, 24.
<hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi> (ob. 1714), Sur la Nature
des Richesses, illustrated the utility of commerce by the picture of a number
of men bound to pillars, one hundred steps apart, one with a superabundance
of food but naked, a second with a superabundance of fuel, a third with a
superabundance of clothing etc.; all of whom perish, because unable to exchange
their respective surpluses with one another. According to <hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>,
Revision, I, 217, <q>buying dear,</q> apart from real fraud, means only a decrease of
possible gain.</note> And so, the value in
use of a nation's resources is really increased by commerce. To
the other attributes of goods it adds one of the principal conditions
of all use, accessibility (<hi rend='italic'>Kudler</hi>), with which it either
newly endows them, or which it increases in degree. To this
end, the merchant makes use of tools, just as the manufacturer
<pb n='173'/><anchor id='Pg173'/>
does. What spinning-wheels, looms and workshops are to the
latter, ships, warehouses, cranes etc., are to the former. If
production be not complete until the thing produced is made
fit for its last end, consumption, commerce may be looked upon
as the last link in the chain of productive labor. It, at the
same time, constitutes a series of intermediate links; as without
it no division of labor is possible, and without a division
of labor, no higher economic productiveness.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, Meditazioni, XXIV, instead of calling the merchant productive,
calls him a mediator between producers and consumers. It would be just
as reasonable to call the shoemaker a mediator between the production and
consumption of leather; or the cloth merchant, who cuts the material from
the piece, an assistant preparatory to the tailor. The labor of commerce is
especially like that of the fisherman or the turf digger, because they produce
only in so far as they transfer goods from inaccessible to accessible places.
See, however, <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, I, § 103. See the demonstration of
the productive power of commerce in general, as well as of what is, by way of preference,
called industry, in <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Smith</hi>, W. of N., IV, ch. 9. A much more
fundamental refutation of the Physiocratic Principle is to be found in
<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, N. Œk., 204 ff.</note> How commerce
may increase the value in exchange of goods, and without
in any way injuring the purchaser, needs no further illustration.<note place='foot'>In
1843, about 55,000 tons of ice were shipped from Boston. Less than
25 cents per ton was paid for the ice in the first instance. When packed on
board ship, it was worth $2.55 per ton. The ultimate sale brought $3,575,000.
Ausland, 1844, No. 278. The ancients were acquainted with a similar
production of ice, the value in exchange of which might be almost entirely
reduced to the labor of commerce. See <hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi>, Memor., II,
I, 30; Athen. III 97: Proverbs of Solomon, 25, 13.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section L. The Same Subject Continued.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section L.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section L.</head>
<head>The Same Subject Continued.</head>

<p>
Even Adam Smith called services, in the narrower sense of
the term (§ <ref target="Section_3">3</ref>), the grave and important ones of
the statesman, clergyman and physician, as well as the <q>frivolous</q> ones of
the opera singer, ballet-dancer and buffoon, unproductive.
The labor of none of these can be fixed or incorporated in any
<pb n='174'/><anchor id='Pg174'/>
particular object.<note place='foot'>W. of N., ch. 3. See, however,
<hi rend='italic'>Garnier's</hi> French translation of Ad. Smith, Préf. p. IX and
V, note 20. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Principles, ch. 1,
Lect. 21. Definitions, ch. 7, 10.</note><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Bacon</hi>
had already said of the nobility, clergy and literateurs: <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>sorti reipublicæ nihil addunt</foreign> (Serm., 15, 29); in
opposition to which, <hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi> justly remarks, that even human labor
may, like other things, be exchanged against goods of all sorts. (Leviathan, 24.) In
the work, Discourse of Trade, Coyn and Credit, p. 44 ff., and p. 156, the absolute
necessity of <q>head-work</q> as well as bodily labor, is conceded; but it is insisted
that physicians, clergymen and jurists can never enrich a country, and that a
relatively large number of them would even conduce to national poverty. (See
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Geschichte der englischen Volkswirthschaftslehre, 138.)
<hi rend='italic'>David Hume</hi> considers merchants as productive, but says that a
doctor or lawyer can grow rich only at the expense of some one else. (Discourses, No.
4, On Interest.) <hi rend='italic'>Ferguson</hi> very cleverly compares such a valuation
of national wealth to that of a miser. Hist. of Civil Society, VI, I.</note>
But how strange it is that the labor of
a violin-maker is called productive, while that of the violin-player
is called unproductive; although the product of the
former has no other object than to be played on by the latter?
(<hi rend='italic'>Garnier</hi>.) Is it not strange that the hog-raiser should be
called productive, and the educator of man unproductive
(<hi rend='italic'>List</hi>); the apothecary, who prepares a salve which alleviates
for the moment, productive, the physician, unproductive, spite
of the fact that his prescription in relation to diet, or his surgical
operation, may radically cure the severest disease?
</p>

<p>
If the productiveness of an employment of the factors of
production be made to depend on whether it is attended by a
material result, no one will deny that the labor of the plowman,
for instance, is productive; and no one, of Adam Smith's
school, at least, that that of the clerk, who orders the raw
material for the owner of the manufactory, is. They have
participated indirectly in the production. But, has not the
servant of the state, who protects the property of its citizens,
or the physician, who preserves the health of the producer, an
equally mediate but indispensable share in it? The field-guard
who keeps the crows away, every one calls productive;
why, not, then, the soldier, who keeps away a far worse
<pb n='175'/><anchor id='Pg175'/>
enemy from the whole land? (<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch.</hi>) But the entire
division of business into two branches, the one directly, and
the other indirectly productive, can be defended only as respects
certain kinds of goods. (<hi rend='italic'>Schmitthenner.</hi>) The labor of
the judge, for instance, is only indirectly productive in the
manufacture of shoes, inasmuch as he guarantees the payment
of the shoemaker's account. On the other hand, the shoemaker
contributes only very indirectly to the general security
which the law affords, by protecting the judge's foot.<note place='foot'>Similarly
<hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>, Inquiry, 355; <hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>, Handbuch
der Staätswirthschaft, I, § 39, and <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch I, § 195,
concede only indirect productiveness to commerce. It may be shown, in a great many
instances, that such productiveness exists side by side with direct productiveness, on
account of the thousand ways in which all economic threads are interwoven with one
another. Thus <hi rend='italic'>Paley</hi> remarks in his work on the Principles of
Morals and Politics, that a tobacco manufacturer even may contribute indirectly to the
cultivation of grain; an actor, to industry etc.</note>
</p>

<p>
Nor can any effectual inferiority of service be claimed,
simply because the productive power of one branch of business
is, measured by the duration of its results, greater than
another.<note place='foot'>Thus <hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, Nouveaux Principes,
II, ch. 1, and, earlier, <hi rend='italic'>Mengotti</hi> Colbertismo,
317. (Cust.) See, on the other hand, <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatsw.
Untersuchungen, 34 ff. Even <hi rend='italic'>J.B. Say</hi> does no manner of justice,
in this respect, to personal services. He speaks <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>of produits qui ne s'attachent à rien qui s'évanouissent
à mésure qu'ils naissent, qu'il est impossible d'accumuler, qui n'ajoutent
rein à la richesse nationale</foreign>. Compare Catéchisme (3d ed.) 52 ff., 174 ff.
On the other hand <hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>, Libertê du Travail, L.V., remarks that
here labor and its result are made to change places; the former like all labor
is very perishable, the latter as lasting as in the case of other kinds of labor.
In the one case the utility is fixed in things, in the other in persons.
<hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi>, Elemente der Staatskunst passim, calls special
attention to how the kinds of labor, called unproductive by <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi>, preserve the state, and in that way, all individual exchangeable goods.
Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, I, 347;
<hi rend='italic'>Steinlein</hi>, Handbuch, I, 460. <hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>
(443), however, is correct when he says, that the continued duration of the product of
labor depends, usually, more on the caprice of consumers than on the nature of the
labor.</note> What is more perishable than a loaf of bread
bought for dinner? What more imperishable than the <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>monumentum ære perennius</foreign> of a Horace? The labor
expended on persons and on relations (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Verhältnissen</foreign>) is, both as to the extent
<pb n='176'/><anchor id='Pg176'/>
and duration of its results, much less capable of being
estimated than any other; but its capacity of accumulation
and its power of propagation are greater than any other. It
is in the domain of the <q>immaterial,</q> that man is most <q>creative.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Lueder.</hi>)<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Garnier</hi>
calls attention to the fact, that there is a great quantity of material
products, such as laces, perfumes etc., that can scarcely be ever used in
further production, and, generally speaking, one's resources for the most part
are not kept in lasting goods, but are preserved by the change of technic forms
in production. <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, I, Aufl., 115.</note>
Finally, neither should the greater indispensableness
of the more material branches of business be too
generally asserted. Agriculture produces grain which is indispensable,
and tobacco which is not; industry, cloth, as well as
lace; commerce draws from the same part of the world rhubarb
and edible bird's-nests; and so, to <emph>services</emph> belong the indispensable
ones of the educator and judge, as well as those
of the rope-dancer and bear-leader, which can be dispensed
with.<note place='foot'>When <hi rend='italic'>Schön</hi>, Nat. Œkonomie, 33,
ridicules the idea of the productiveness of personal
services, by citing the instance of prostitution carried on as
a trade, he forgets that many material goods also may conduce to the moral
damage of the purchaser of them. It is said that there are in France 3,500
retailers and colporteurs of immoral writings and pictures, who sell yearly
nine million numbers or pieces, at a cost of six million francs! (Moniteur, 9
Avril, 1853.)</note> Indeed, the dividing line between material and intellectual
production cannot, by any means, be closely drawn.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, Theorie der ausschliessenden Absatzverhältnise, 1867,
135. seq.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LI. The Same Subject Continued.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LI.</head>
<head>The Same Subject Continued.</head>

<p>
The greater number of recent writers<note place='foot'>Many of the socialists take a
retrograde step in this respect, in as much as they consider only manual labor
productive. <hi rend='italic'>Fourier's</hi> school particularly,
declaim passionately against the unproductiveness of commerce and
of most personal services. Compare <hi rend='italic'>V. Considérant</hi>,
Destinée sociale, 1851, I, 44.</note> have, therefore, come
to be of the opinion that every useful business which ministers
<pb n='177'/><anchor id='Pg177'/>
to the whole people's requirement of external goods possesses
economic productiveness.<note place='foot'>Besides the above, see
<hi rend='italic'>Gioja</hi>, N. Prospetto, I, 246 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Scialoja</hi>,
42; <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité, I, ch. 2; <hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>,
N. Grundlegung, I, 42, 54; <hi rend='italic'>Gr. Soden</hi>, Nat. Œkonomie, I, 142 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, St. Untersuchungen, 20 ff., distinguishes
three politico-economical points of view; that of the producer, that of the
consumer, and that of the whole nation's economy. The producer calls his
labor productive, in case he receives back his outlay of capital with the rate
of profit usual in the trade of the country. To this point of view, therefore,
every service which is paid for, according to wish, seems productive.
On the other hand, the consumer ascribes productiveness to all those kinds
of labor the achievements of which he may use, and which he can obtain at
a convenient price. Whenever, therefore, he pays for a service voluntarily,
he acknowledges its productiveness. Lastly, from a national-economical
point of view, all labor is considered productive which increases the quantity
of goods exposed for sale in the market; and this, personal services do.
The technic productiveness, which depends on the execution of the technic
ideas floating before the mind of the workman, must be distinguished from this
economic productiveness. It is possible that, technically labor may be very
productive, and yet cause economic loss; for instance, the fine arts and the
so-called master pieces of the trades! See <hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi>, De Benef.,
II, 33. <hi rend='italic'>H.</hi> (33) furnishes a very good refutation of the
doctrine that a great deal depends on whether the labor has been paid from capital
or from income. <hi rend='italic'>Eiselen</hi>, Volkswirthschaft (1843), 27 ff.,
remarks, that the laborer, for instance, who grows corn, must besides look
after his health and the preservation of his house; this is a
part of his necessary aggregate labor. Why, then, should
it be called unproductive when such secondary labor is performed by particular
persons? Otherwise the farmer would have no time whatever for his
principal business! Edinburgh Review, 1804, IV, 343 ff.;
<hi rend='italic'>Wakefield</hi>, An Essay upon Political Economy, 1804,
who is concerned mainly with the theory of the productiveness
of labor. <hi rend='italic'>L. Lauderdale</hi> says, that when the
nation's wealth is estimated according to its value in use, all useful labor is
productive; and that when estimated according to its value in exchange, all
labor that is paid is productive. (Inquiry, ch. 3.) <hi rend='italic'>Stein</hi>
(Lehrbuch, 68; Tüb. Zeitschr., 1868, 230) conditions the notion of productiveness by the
presence of a superfluity of values. But, it may be asked, does a family,
which does no more than support itself, labor unproductively? (Compare, however,
§ <ref target="Section_30">30</ref>.) <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi> took a
surprisingly retrograde step in the doctrine on this point, in his Principles,
I, ch. 3. Compare his Essays on some unsettled Questions of Political Economy,
No. 3. A still more surprising exaggeration in <hi rend='italic'>de Augustinis</hi>
Instituzzioni di Economia sociale (Napoli 1837), who goes so far as to call a
person guilty of arson a productive person because he has produced for himself
<q>the pleasure of destruction</q>! More recently, <hi rend='italic'>von Mangoldt</hi>
distinguishes between economic labor and the labor
of culture: the latter is incorporated into the man himself, the former one
employed on the external world, in order to transform it in a way corresponding
to human wants. Viewed from the stand-point of Political Economy,
the latter only is productive. (Volkswirthschaftslehre, 1865, 26 ff.)</note>
But it makes a great difference
to science, whether a view is considered true because
no one has suggested a doubt of its correctness, or because
all doubts as to its truth have been triumphantly removed.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='178'/><anchor id='Pg178'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LII. Idea Of Productiveness.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LII.</head>
<head>Idea Of Productiveness.</head>

<p>
It should never be lost sight of, that the public economy of
a people should be considered an organism, which, when its
growth is healthy, always develops more varied organs, but
always in a due proportion, which are not only carried by the
body, but also in turn serve to carry it. The aggregate of
the wants of the entire public economy etc., is satisfied by the
aggregate activity of the people. Every individual who employs
his lands, labor or capital for the whole, receives his
share of the aggregate produce, whether he contributed or
not to the creation of the kind of produce in which he is paid.
Thus, in a pin-manufactory, the workman who is occupied
solely in making the heads of pins is not paid in pins or pin-heads,
but in a part of the aggregate result of the manufacture,
in money. Every department of business, therefore,
for the achievements of which there is a rational demand, and
which are remunerated in proportion to their deserts, has
labored productively. It is unproductive only when no one
will need what it has brought forth, or when no one will pay
for it; but, in this case, what is true of the writer without
readers&mdash;that he is unproductive&mdash;and of the singer without
hearers, is equally true of the peasant whose corn rots in
his granary, because he can find no sale for it.<note place='foot'>We
might, indeed, compare original production, that which preceded all
other, to eating; the trades, to digestion; commerce, to the movements of the
several members of the body; personal services to inspiration, and yet
all are equally necessary to the life of the body! Thus,
<hi rend='italic'>Gamilh</hi> compares agriculture to the root of a tree of which the
service rendered by the state is the top. The growth of the latter contributes, as well as
that of the former, to the nutrition of the whole, and is far removed
from exhausting the tree. Théorie de l' E.P., II, 46 ff. <q>Natural production</q>
would, indeed, accomplish very little without the legal protection
guaranteed by the state, or without the tools furnished by industry
etc. But it is, besides, in most instances, a distortion of the truth to
speak of productive and unproductive men or classes of men. These
expressions are proper only when applied to individual kinds of
labor. See <hi rend='italic'>Murhard</hi>, Ideen über Nat. Œk., 88 ff.
Persons seriously ill are temporarily unproductive, and children who die early,
are unproductive for their whole life.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='179'/><anchor id='Pg179'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LIII. The Same Subject Continued.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LIII.</head>
<head>The Same Subject Continued.</head>

<p>
In this matter, again, there is an important difference to be
observed between private or individual economy and economy
in its widest sense, in the sense of a world-economy. The
productiveness of labor is estimated in the case of the former,
according to the value in exchange of its result; in the
case of the latter, according to its value in use. There is a
great number of employments which are very remunerative
to private individuals, but which are entirely unproductive,
and even injurious, so far as mankind is concerned; for the
reason that they take from others as much as, or even more
than they procure to those engaged in them. Here belong,
besides formal crimes against property, games of chance,<note place='foot'>Not,
however, in the case in which the loser estimates the pleasure of the
play higher than the loss.</note>
usurious speculations (§ <ref target="Section_113">113</ref>)
and measures taken to entice customers
away from other competitors. Again, scientific experiments,
means of communication etc., may be entirely unproductive
in the individual economy of the undertaker, and
yet be of more profit to mankind in general, than they have
<pb n='180'/><anchor id='Pg180'/>
cost the former.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>,
Traité, I. ch. 1.</note> In this respect the nation's economy holds
a middle place between individual economy and the world's
economy.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>v. Cancrin</hi>, Œkonomie der
menschlichen Gesellschaften, 1845, 10, speaks, in this case, of privative
production. Among the Socialists, <hi rend='italic'>Bazard's</hi> expression
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>l'exploitation de l'homme par
l'homme</foreign>, has found loud echo; instead of which only <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>l'exploitation du globe par l'homme</foreign> should
be allowed to obtain. (Exposition de la Doctrine de St. Simon, 24.) But
<hi rend='italic'>von Schröder</hi> had already warned the world of <q>imagined
food</q> which led only to idleness. (F. Schatz- und Rentkammer, 191, 363.)</note>
Strictly speaking, only those employments should
be called productive which increase the world's resources.
Hence, the work of government should be called so, only in
so far as its expenses are covered by the taxes paid willingly
by the more reasonable portion of the citizens; and also only
in so far as its work is really necessary to the attainment of
its end.<note place='foot'>Therefore, there should not be too
many nor too highly salaried offices. See <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>,
Nationaleinkommen, 33 ff.</note> The productiveness of an employment supposes,
also, that it is not carried on at the cost of other employments
which it is more difficult to do without. In a healthy nation
we may, in this matter, rely, to a certain extent, on the judgment
of public opinion, which knows how to appreciate, at
their just value, professional gamblers, pettifoggers and the
luxury of soldiers. The greater, freer and more cultivated a
nation is, the more probable is it that the productiveness of
private economy is also national-economical productiveness,
and that national-economical productiveness is world-economical
productiveness.<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>v. Mangoldt</hi>,
Volkswirthschaftslehre, 29 ff.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LIV. Importance Of A Due Proportion In The Different
Branches Of Productiveness.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LIV.</head>
<head>Importance Of A Due Proportion In The Different
Branches Of Productiveness.</head>

<p>
Much always depends on the due proportion of the different
branches of productiveness to one another. Thus, Spain,
for instance, has remained poor under the most advantageous
<pb n='181'/><anchor id='Pg181'/>
circumstances in the world,<note place='foot'><emph>Remained</emph>, and not
<emph>become</emph>, poor, as is generally supposed; for the enormous
wealth of Spain, under Ferdinand and Isabella, as well as during the
early period of Charles V. is only a <hi rend='italic'>fable convenue</hi>.
Charles V. said: France has a superabundance of everything, and Spain is
in want of everything. See also the embassy report of
<hi rend='italic'>Navagero</hi> (1526), Viaggio fatto in Spagna e
in Francia (Venet., 1563), and <hi rend='italic'>Ranke</hi>, Fürsten und
Volker, I, 393 ff.</note> because it allowed a disproportionate
preponderance of personal services. The character of
the Spanish people has always given them a leaning towards
aristocratic pride and economic idleness. Tradesmen, in that
country, sought, as a rule, to amass merely enough to enable
them to live on the interest of their capital; after which they,
by way of preference, removed it into some other province,
where they might be considered as among the nobility; or
they withdrew into a monastery. Even in 1781, the Madrid
Academy thought it incumbent on it to propose a prize for the
best essay in support of the thesis: <q>The useful trades in no
way detract from personal honor.</q><note place='foot'>The prize
was won by <hi rend='italic'>Arreta de Monteseguro</hi>. The author of the history
of Portuguese Asia, translated by <hi rend='italic'>Stevens</hi>, is
of opinion (III, ch. 6), that commerce is not a proper subject for
serious history to treat.</note> During the century in
which the country was in its greatest glory, the whole people
were bent on being to all Europe what nobles, officers and officials
are to a single nation. <q>Whoever wishes to make his
fortune,</q> said Cervantes, <q>let him seek the church, the sea (i.e.,
go as an adventurer to America) or the king's palace.</q> Under
Philip III., there were in Spain nine hundred and eighty-eight
nunneries, and thirty-two thousand mendicant friars.
The number of monasteries trebled between 1574 and 1624,
and the number of monks increased in a yet greater ratio. A
great many of its manufactories, much of its commerce, and not
a few of its most important farms were controlled by foreigners,
especially by Italians. There were, it seems, in 1610, one
hundred and sixty thousand foreign tradesmen living in Castile.
In 1787, there were still 188,625 priests, monks, nuns,
etc.; 280,092 servants; 480,589 nobles; 964,571 day laborers;
987,187 peasants; 310,739 mechanics and manufacturers;
<pb n='182'/><anchor id='Pg182'/>
34,339 merchants.<note place='foot'>There is a very fine description of this
spirit in <hi rend='italic'>Clenard</hi>, Epist. I. ad Latomum
(1535 ff.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Juvellanos</hi>, in
<hi rend='italic'>Laborde</hi>, Itinéraire déscriptif, IV, 176.
<hi rend='italic'>Townsend</hi>, Journey through Spain, II, 207, 117.
<hi rend='italic'>Buckle</hi>, History of Civilization, II, ch. I. The
census of 1788 gave the number of priests and monks, soldiers, mariners,
nobles, lawyers, tax-gatherers, authors, students and domestics, at 1,221,000,
in a total of 3,800,000 men; from which number there was a multitude of
beggars, vagrants etc. to be deducted. <hi rend='italic'>Laborde</hi>,
Itinéraire, II, 32 ff. The seventeen universities and the numberless small
Latin schools, with their gratuitous instruction, and their many scholarships,
misled a disproportionately large number to engage in study. At the beginning
of this century, there were at least 200,000 priests, nuns
(<hi rend='italic'>Geistliche</hi>), etc., in a population of from three to
three and a half millions only. (<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, Erdbeschreibung
von Portugal, 66.) <hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi> shows that the poverty of
the Osman is caused by too many state employees, tax-farmers and retail
merchants. (Journal kept in Turkey and Greece, 1857-58.) Thus, also,
<hi rend='italic'>J. Tucker</hi>, Four Tracts, 1774, 18, contrasts men engaged
in industry with rich idlers, whose increase, possibly by immigration, would make
the people a nation of <q>gentlemen and ladies, footmen, grooms, laundresses etc.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Schmitthener</hi>, N. Œk., 656, calls a condition such as that
of Spain, <q>national-economical phthisis.</q></note> As a counterpart to this, the
United States had, in 1840, about 77.5 per cent. of its population engaged
in agriculture, 16.8 in manufactures and mining, 4.2 in shipping
and commerce, 1.3 in the learned professions.<note place='foot'><p><hi
rend='italic'>Tucker</hi>, Progress of the U.S., 137. The following data also will
serve for a comparison: In Belgium, in 1856, it was estimated that, leaving persons
<hi rend='italic'>sans profession</hi> out of consideration, 45.6 per cent. were
agriculturists, 37.2 industrials, 6.7 in commerce, 2.8 in the liberal professions,
1.5 <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>force publique</foreign>, 2.1
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>propriétaires, rentiers,
pensionnés</foreign>, 3.7 <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>domesticité</foreign>. In Prussia, in 1871, of the
entire male population, 28.6 per cent. were engaged in agriculture, forest-culture,
hunting and fishing: 32.3 per cent. in mining, industry, building, and in
founderies: 8.56 in trade and commerce; 20.3 in personal services and handiwork
not belonging to any of the groups above mentioned; 2.3 in the army
and navy; 3.7 in other callings; 2.7 were renters, pensioners, and persons who
lived by selling or renting houses, reserving lodgings for themselves therein,
and persons who gave no account of their calling. (Preuss. statisc. Zeitschr., 1875,
32. ff.) It is, however, surprising that <hi rend='italic'>Engel's</hi> Amtl. Jahrbuch,
III, 1867, gives only 48 per cent. as belonging to the first category, and 25 to
the second. In the kingdom of Saxony in 1861, 25.1 per cent. of the population
were agriculturists and foresters; 56.1 were engaged in industry; 7.7 in trade
and commerce; 6.8 in art, science, the service of the state and of private persons;
while 4.1 per cent were without any particular calling, or returned none.
Bavaria, in 1852, had 67.9 per cent. of its population engaged in agriculture;
22.7 in the trades and in manufactures; 5.5 per cent., persons living on the
interest of their money, and by performing the higher class of personal services;
1.9 in the army; and 2 per cent. of listed poor. In <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>,
Beiträge zur Statistik des Königreichs Bayern. In France, according to the official
reports, there were:
</p>
<p>
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Agriculteurs</foreign> 61.46 per cent. in
1851, 51.49 per cent. in 1866;<lb/>
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Industriels et commerçants</foreign> 25.95
per cent. in 1851, 32.78 per cent. in 1866;<lb/>
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Professions libérales</foreign> 9.73 per
cent. in 1851, 9.48 per cent. in 1866.
</p>
<p>
To which it must be added, that, in 1851, there were 2.86 <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>sans profession ou dont les professions n'ont pu être
constatées</foreign>; and that, in 1866, on the other hand, there were 2.87 per
cent. in <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>professions se rattachant à
l'agriculture, industrie et commerce. (Legoyt.)</foreign> In England and Wales,
leaving the domestic class out of consideration (women without an independent means of
employment, school children, servant girls etc.), and also the <q>indefinite class,</q>
there were, in 1861, 25.3 per cent. of the population engaged in agricultural
pursuits; 60.7 in industrial; 7.8 in commercial; and 6.06 in professional pursuits.
In Italy, omitting housewives, children and infirm persons, there
were, in 1862, 57.4 per cent. of the population engaged in agriculture; 22.9
in industrial pursuits; 4 in commerce; and 3.9 per cent. in the army and in
the liberal professions. (Annali univ. di Statistica, Febbr., 1866.) On Holland,
in the middle of the 17th century, see <hi rend='italic'>J. de Wit</hi>, Mémoires,
34 seq.</p></note>
</p>

<pb n='183'/><anchor id='Pg183'/>

<p>
We might be tempted, in view of this contrast, to return
once more to the unproductiveness of personal services. It is
not, however, the direction given to the forces of production,
but the squandering of them, that is injurious. When the
Magyar, through mere vanity, drives a yoke of from four
to six horses where two are enough; or when, as in 1831,
Irish agriculture employed 1,131,715 workmen to produce a
value of thirty-six million pounds sterling, while that of Great
Britain<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Csaplovics</hi>, Gemälde von
Ungarn II, 1. <hi rend='italic'>Torrens</hi>, The Budget: On commercial
and colonial Policy, 106 ff.</note> produced one hundred and fifty millions a year, and
employed only 1,055,982 workmen, these causes are as sure to
impoverish the country, as the waste of the Spaniards in supporting
such an army of clergy and servants. Of course, the
temptation to waste wealth on parks is greater than to waste
it in vegetable gardens! The probability that a man will ruin
himself by keeping too many servants is greater than that he
<pb n='184'/><anchor id='Pg184'/>
will do the same by employing too many operatives.<note place='foot'>Precisely
as there are more people ruined by spirituous liquors than by
bread. Time thieving is also more frequent among servants. There is
scarcely anything in agriculture analogous to the lazzaroni who wait all day
to help a gondola to land, to unload a coach, etc. There is more in the
chase, in the fisheries, or in the cattle raising.</note> And
all the more, as there are many and especially important services
which regulate their own remuneration: thus, as a rule,
those of the statesman, those of the military in times of war,
and those of the priest in the age of superstition.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>, Harmonies économiques, ch. 17. Hence
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi> accounts it one of the chief merits of the
constitutional state, that in it, the <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>population gardienne</foreign> does not regulate its
own remuneration. (N.P., I, 144.) <hi rend='italic'>Saint Simon</hi>, indeed,
says that the French members of the <hi rend='italic'>Chambre</hi>, in his
time, drew a revenue from the state, three times as large as from their own
resources, and were, therefore, deeply interested in increasing the budget.
(Vues sur la Propriété et la Législation, 1818.) I would call attention also to
the national over-estimation and over-crowding of learned callings from
which Germany suffered, even as far back as the time of Louis XIV. (<hi rend='italic'>v.
Schröder</hi>, Fürstl. Schatz-und Rentkammer, 302 ff.); to the disproportionate
number of keepers of public houses, which is related to the system of popular
assemblies, and is a regular attendant upon Democracy (<hi rend='italic'>Bronner</hi>,
Der C. Aargau, I, 451.) Taxation-legislation may here become a good means of
popular education.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LV. The Degree Of Productiveness.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LV.</head>
<head>The Degree Of Productiveness.</head>

<p>
Concerning the degree of productiveness, it may be remarked
that that application of the factors of production is
most productive, which, with the least expenditure of means,
satisfies the greatest want in the economy of a people. Here,
there is a continual change, corresponding precisely to the
change in wants and faculties. After a bad harvest, for instance,
the labor which procures grain from foreign countries
or the supplies of former years, is most productive; and, after
an earthquake which has destroyed a large city, the labor of
the builder. Agriculture is, as a rule, the more productive
<pb n='185'/><anchor id='Pg185'/>
labor of undeveloped nations, and industry of highly developed
nations.<note place='foot'>This was recognized very early by <hi rend='italic'>Gregor.
Tolsan</hi>, l.c. <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi>, Elemente, II, 255.
<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, II, 229 ff.
(<hi rend='italic'>Schleiermacher</hi>, Christ. Sitte, 668.) <hi rend='italic'>A.
Smith,</hi> W. of N., II, ch. 5, ascribed greater productiveness to agricultural
than to industrial labor; in the former case, not only human labor
was put in operation, but the forces of nature were compelled to coöperate
with them. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Additions (1817) to the
Essay on the Principle of Population, B. III, ch. 8-12. Principles of P. E., 217 ff.
Both thus explain the rent of land, and so far as products, which have only value in
exchange are concerned, they are right. Hence it is all the more surprising
that <hi rend='italic'>Carey</hi>, the zealous advocate of a protective tariff and
opponent of rent, comes back in this to Adam Smith. Principles of Social Science, 1858,
II, 35, and passim. Compare also <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité, II, ch. 8;
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, N. P., II, ch. 5. For the best refutation of this
view, see <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, Principles, ch. 2, 3. Does not all labor put
the force of nature in operation? <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Ad opera
nihil aliud potest homo, quam ut corpora naturalia admoveat, reliqua natura intus
transigit.</foreign> (<hi rend='italic'>Bacon.</hi>) Similarly,
<hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, Meditazioni, III, 1. An expression escapes even
<hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi> himself (ch. 7), to the effect, that capitalists are the
producing class.</note><note place='foot'>Relying on very superficial statistics of
England and France, <hi rend='italic'>Ganilh</hi> advocates a theory of the productive
forces of the several branches of economy the very reverse of <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith's</hi>. He places foreign trade first; then follow wholesale trade, industry and
agriculture. (Théorie, I, 240 seq.)</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='186'/><anchor id='Pg186'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter III. The Organization Of Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter III.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter III.</head>
<head>The Organization Of Labor.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LVI. Development Of The Division Of Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LVI.'/>
<anchor id="Section_56"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LVI.</head>
<head>Development Of The Division Of Labor.</head>

<p>
The larger a tree grows to be, the more boughs and
branches does it put forth. The more perfect any species of
animal is, the more does it stand in need of a special organ for
each special purpose. And thus the division of labor has developed
and kept pace with the development of human society.
While Crusoe was obliged to provide for all his wants by his
own labor, we find that in the wildest Indian family the male is
employed in war, the chase, in fishing, in the manufacture of
arms and boats, and in the transportation of the latter during
long marches; the female, on the other hand, in the preparation
of food, in the hewing of wood, the curing of skins, the
sewing of clothes, in the building and preservation of the wig-wam,
the care of children, and the carriage of baggage when
on the march.<note place='foot'>Ausland, 1846, No. 54. Expressions still used in
Europe, such as <foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Spindelmagen</foreign>
(spindle-relation), <foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Kunkellehen</foreign>
(apron-string-hold) etc., for instance, suggest this
most ancient and purely family division of labor. The lower
classes of the population, even in the most civilized countries, are wont to
preserve some of the peculiar customs of very primitive times. Hence it is
that among proletarians, the division of labor between males and females is
still very small. The employments usual at different stages of life among
men, and the costumes worn by them are much more uniform than among
the higher classes. See <hi rend='italic'>Riehl</hi>, Die Familie, 1855,
passim.</note> These occupations, at first entirely domestic,
<pb n='187'/><anchor id='Pg187'/>
became, by degrees, separate industries, which are constantly
subject to further subdivision.<note place='foot'>As <hi rend='italic'>Dankwardt</hi>
shows, the <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>jus civile</foreign> of the
earliest Roman time is based on the condition of isolated labor, the later
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>jus gentium</foreign>, on the division of
labor. N. Œk. und Jurisprudenz, 1857, Heft. I.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LVII. Development Of The Division Of Labor.&mdash;Its
Extent At Different Periods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LVII.</head>
<head>Development Of The Division Of Labor.&mdash;Its Extent
At Different Periods.</head>

<p>
In the middle age of a people, the division of labor is not
carried to any great extent. The courtiers of King Frotho
III. advised him to marry, <q>since otherwise his majesty's ragged
linen would never be mended.</q> Saint Dunstan, although
he occupied a high position in politics and in the Church, was
an excellent blacksmith, bell-founder and designer of ladies'
robes. Chriemhild in the Nibelungenlied was an industrious
and skillful milliner. In the corresponding period of Grecian
and Roman history, we find Penelope and Lucretia at
the loom, Nausicaa, a laundress, the daughter of the king of
the Lestrigons, fetching water from the spring, Odysseus, a
carpenter, a queen of Macedonia as a cook, and finally the
distaff of Tanaquil.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Saxo Gramm.</hi>, Hist. Dan.
V, 101. <hi rend='italic'>Turner</hi>, Hist. of the A. Saxons B.
VII, ch. 11. Nibel., 351 ff. There is a French proverb: <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>du temps que la reine Berthe filait</foreign>. Queen Bertha
was a mythic daughter of Charlemagne. It may be that the character meant is the
old German spinning goddess Berchta. Concerning the daughter of Otto the Great, see
<hi rend='italic'>Dithmar</hi>, Merseb. II. <hi rend='italic'>Homer</hi>, Od. V,
31 ff.; X, 106; XXIII, 189 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, VIII, 137.
<hi rend='italic'>Livy</hi>, I. 57.</note> In the highlands of Scotland, in 1797,
there were a great many peasants all of whose clothing was
home-made, with the exception of their caps; nothing coming
from abroad except the tailor, his needles and iron tools generally.
But the peasant himself was the weaver, fuller, dyer,
tanner, shoemaker etc. of his own family:<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Eden</hi>,
State of the Poor I, 558 ff. In the interior of Peru, the priest is also usually a
shop-keeper (<hi rend='italic'>Pöppig</hi>, Reise, II, 365); in Canada, as in many of
the villages of the Alps which are not often visited, a hotel keeper. In countries
with an unadvanced civilization, the little division of labor that exists
is also very awkwardly regulated. Thus in Russia, weak children are very
frequently put to work on farms, while powerful men are found in the city
offering all kinds of eatables and the pictures of saints for sale.
(<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Gemälde des russischen Reichs II, 364.
<hi rend='italic'>v. Haxthausen</hi>, Studien I, 335.)</note> every man jack of
all trades.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Babbage</hi>, Economy of Machinery,
1833, 201. <hi rend='italic'>L. Faucher</hi>, Angleterre II, Ch.
<q><hi rend='italic'>la Ville des Serruriers</hi>.</q> The industrial statistics
of Paris, furnished by <hi rend='italic'>H. Say</hi> in 1847 and 1848, show that
in that city alone there are 325 different branches of
industry, 17 of which are concerned with the production of food;
21 with building; 32 with the manufacture of furniture; 21 with that of
clothing; 36 with that of thread and tissues; 7 with skins and leathers; 14
with vehicles, saddlery, and military equipment; 33 with chemicals and
pottery; 33 with working in metal, glass etc.; 35 in that of the precious
metals and jewels; 27 with printing, engraving and paper; 15 with that
of wooden-ware and wicker-ware; 34 with <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>articles de Paris</foreign>. Journal des
Economistes, Janv., 1853, 107. According to the industrial almanac of
Birmingham, there are in that city manufacturers of buttons in gold, silver,
metal, mother-of-pearl etc.; manufacturers of hammers, ink-stands, coffin-nails,
dog-collars, tooth-picks, stirrups, fish-hooks, spurs, pack-needles etc.</note>
</p>

<pb n='188'/><anchor id='Pg188'/>

<p>
In present England, on the other hand, the manufacture of
watches is divided into one hundred and two branches which
have to be specially learned; only the so-called <q>watch-finisher</q>
carries on other branches besides. In Wolverhampton, it may
happen that a man, employed in the manufacture of keys,
may not be able to make a whole key after an apprenticeship
of ten years, for the reason that during all that time he may
have been engaged only in filing.<note place='foot'>And so with
the subdivisions. Flannel is manufactured almost exclusively
in Halifax, woolen blankets between Leeds and Huddersfield etc.</note>
In English agriculture
there are, according to German notions, very few complete
wholes. A well-marked distinction exists there between the
cultivators of corn and breeders of cattle; and the latter
are again divided into breeders of young cattle, into fatteners
of cattle etc. Its industries are, in large part, separated
into provinces. Thus, linen manufactures are confined
almost exclusively to Leeds and Dundee, woolen manufactures,
to Leeds,<note place='foot'>The same division of labor was
developed among the Dutch in the 17th century, and excited
then the wonder of the English. See <hi rend='italic'>Sir W. Temple,</hi>
Observations upon the U. Provinces, 1672, ch. 3. Works, I, 128, 143. In
1615, <hi rend='italic'>Montchrêtien</hi> held up the Flemish as a model
to the French, in this respect.</note> cotton manufactures, to Manchester,
<pb n='189'/><anchor id='Pg189'/>
and Glasgow, pottery to Stafford, coarse iron to South Wales,
hardwares to Birmingham, cutlery to Sheffield. And so in
the different quarters of the city. Thus, in large towns, the
banks, stores, offices etc., are found in one portion, with
scarcely any intervening dwelling houses.
</p>

<p>
On the division of labor depends all differences of estate
and class, and all human culture. It cannot be claimed that a
division of labor does not exist among animals;<note place='foot'>On the bees,
see <hi rend='italic'>Virgil, Georg.</hi> IV, 158.</note> but those animals
among which something analogous to a division of labor
among men exists, are raised far above all others by their human-like
economy and the relative importance of their achievements.<note place='foot'>The
principle of the division of labor was known to the ancients:
<hi rend='italic'>Xenophon</hi>, Cyri Discipl., VIII, 2, 5.
<hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, de Rep., II, 369, III, 394, IV, 443;
<hi rend='italic'>Isocrat</hi>., Busir., 8. <hi rend='italic'>Aristot</hi>.,
Polit., II, 8, 8. Among the more modern writers, compare <hi rend='italic'>Thomas
Aquin</hi>., De Reg. pr., I, 1, II, 3. <hi rend='italic'>Luther</hi> (Works by Walch,
I, 388), in his Commentary on Genesis, 3, 19. <hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>,
Several Essays, 1682, p. 113. Considerations upon the East India Trade, London,
1701. <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Geschichte der englischen
Volkswirthschaftslehre, 118. <hi rend='italic'>Mandeville</hi>, The Fable of the
Bees, enlarged edition of 1723, p. 411. <hi rend='italic'>Berkeley</hi>, Querist, 1735,
No. 415, 430, 520 ff., 586: <q>What is everybody's business is nobody's.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Harris</hi>, on Money and Coins (1757), I, 16.
<hi rend='italic'>J. J. Rousseau</hi>, Emile (1762), L. III.
<hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Sur la Formation et la Distribution des Richesses, §
3, p. 50, 62, 66. <hi rend='italic'>Diderot</hi>, Encyclopédie de l'Art, s. v. Art.
<hi rend='italic'>J. Tucker</hi>, Four Tracts (1774), p. 25 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Boccaria</hi>, Economia pubblica, I, 1, 9. But the author to
whom we owe most on this score is undoubtedly <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>. To him we
are indebted almost entirely for our knowledge of the natural laws developed
in § <ref target="Section_59">59</ref> seq.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LVIII. Advantages Of The Division Of Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LVIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LVIII.</head>
<head>Advantages Of The Division Of Labor.</head>

<p>
The advantages of all suitable division of labor, consequent
upon the natural differences of human faculties and dispositions,
are the following:
</p>

<pb n='190'/><anchor id='Pg190'/>

<p>
A. <hi rend='italic'>The greater skill of the workman.</hi> Even physically,
many capacities are, by an indefinite number of repetitions of
the same operation, enhanced to an extraordinary degree;
which, however, renders the performance of other operations
more difficult. Thus, the man who has developed his muscles
and hardened his hands working in a smithy, renders
himself incapable of becoming a violin-player or an operating
oculist.<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, a nailer
can make 2,300 nails (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi> says 3,000 shoemaker's tacks in
the Odenwalde) per day; a smith who is only occasionally employed in the manufacture,
from 800 to 1,000; and smiths who never made nails before, from 200 to 300. A
clever filer makes 200 strokes in a minute; a skilled comb-maker can make in a
day from 60 to 70 combs of such fineness that there are from 40 to 48 teeth to the
inch in them; eight Liege brick-makers, working together, produce 4,800 bricks per
day; children employed in a needle manufactory, in making the eyes of needles, grow so
skillful at it that they can make a small hole in the finest hair and draw another
hair through it. <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch I, § 115. The old proverb,
<q>practice makes perfect,</q> is followed even by thieves in their great division of
labor. See <hi rend='italic'>Thiele</hi>, Die jüdischen Gauner I, 87.
<hi rend='italic'>Fregier</hi>, Des Classes Dangéreuses.</note>
Here belongs especially the possibility of turning
every kind of labor-power to greatest account. Even children<note place='foot'>Children,
with their thinner fingers, can point twice as many needles in
the same time as a grown person.</note>
and old men may be made, in this way, to play a part
in the production of goods. It becomes practicable, too, to
relieve men endowed with superior faculties from common
labor, and allow them to devote themselves exclusively to the
development of the peculiar powers with which nature has
gifted them.<note place='foot'>The manufacture of English needles demands, on the part
of workmen, degrees of skill so different that their pay varies from 6 pence to 20
shillings per day. If the most skillful workman were to manufacture whole needles
alone, he would partly be obliged to be satisfied with one-fortieth of what he
might otherwise receive. <hi rend='italic'>Babbage</hi>, loc. cit.</note>
</p>

<p>
B. <hi rend='italic'>A great saving of time and trouble.</hi> The simpler the
operation performed by a single workman, the more easily
is it learned; the smaller is the price paid or apprenticeship,
which depends on this, at least, that beginners perform poorer
work and are paid more poorly. <q>The shortest way to the
<pb n='191'/><anchor id='Pg191'/>
end is most easily found when the end itself is near, and can
be kept continually in view.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>.) Where the same
workman combines different operations, a great deal of time
is lost in changing tools etc. Besides, it always takes some
time for a workman to get rightly under way of his work.
The person who changes thus frequently becomes more easily
indolent. Lastly, there is a great number of operations which
demand the same aggregate amount of effort, no matter what
the number of objects on which they are performed. It is
thus, for instance, with shepherds, mail-carriers etc.<note place='foot'>In
the case of machines and in the chemical branches of industry, the labor
increases in a much smaller ratio than the material used in production.</note> The
post carries a thousand letters with almost as much ease as
one; and the entire life of a wholesale dealer would scarcely
suffice to carry all the letters which he mails in a single day,
to their place of destination. During the middle ages, every
man was obliged to watch over his own personal safety and
the maintenance of his own rights; while in 1850, in Great
Britain, twenty-one million people are protected in their persons
and property, in an infinitely more effectual manner, and
at less cost, by fifteen thousand soldiers, and by a much smaller
number of policemen, whose place it is to preserve public
order. (<hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>.) Something similar takes place among merchants,
and it may be admitted as correct in principle, that
every new intermediary, freely recognized by both sides in
commerce,<note place='foot'>In opposition to monopolies, and to practical constraint
which has its source in ignorance etc.</note> makes labor better or less expensive.
</p>

<p>
C. As the land of a country is, in a sense, the natural extension
of the national body, <hi rend='italic'>the international division of labor</hi>
affords an indirect means, but frequently an indispensable one,
of procuring the products of foreign countries and climates.<note place='foot'>Hence
<hi rend='italic'>Torrens</hi> calls foreign trade the <q>territorial division of
labour.</q> (Essay on the Production of Wealth (1821), 155 ff.)</note>
If the English people wished to obtain themselves, and without
having recourse to any intermediary, the quantity of tea
<pb n='192'/><anchor id='Pg192'/>
which they annually consume, it is possible that its whole agricultural
population would not suffice to procure it; while, at
present, it is obtained by the labor of forty-five thousand industrial
workmen. (<hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>.) Moreover, the division of labor
increases not only the aptitude of the workman but also his
incentive to productive labor, since it guarantees to every one
the certainty of being able, by means of exchange, to enjoy
the productions of every other person.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>, Harmonies, ch. 1, for a very beautiful exposition of the
doctrine that each man receives much more from society than he accomplishes
on his part, for it.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LIX. Conditions Of The Division Of Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LIX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_59"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LIX.</head>
<head>Conditions Of The Division Of Labor.</head>

<p>
It is by its division, that labor, considered as a factor of production,
is raised to the highest degree of efficiency. Its results
in any given industry are, therefore, more important in
proportion as the element labor predominates in it. Hence,
these results are much smaller, in agriculture, for instance, than
in the trades, or in personal services.<note place='foot'>The
working together of a great number of persons is often carried on
to the detriment of agriculture, for each then waits for all the others to
work, throws all the blame on them etc. (<hi rend='italic'>Columella</hi>, I, 9.) As
many a housekeeper must have observed, two seamstresses or ironers accomplish,
in a day, less than one, in two days. Of course, this rule does not apply in
the case of work which cannot be performed by one man, under any circumstances,
or the magnitude of which would easily discourage him, and in
which mutual aid is easily obtained; as in the raising of heavy loads, the
construction of roads, dikes etc.</note> The most expert sower or
harvester cannot be employed the whole year through in sowing
or harvesting. Some kind of rotation of crops, some kind of
combination of tillage and stock-raising is necessary to every
agriculturist. On this depends the importance of the technic
secondary industries of agriculture, which are, in principle,
<pb n='193'/><anchor id='Pg193'/>
opposed to the division of labor. Hence, too, almost any person
engaged in a trade, no matter of what kind, supposes a
greater number of customers than a tiller of the land of the
same rank.
</p>

<p>
The more labor is divided, the greater is the amount of capital
necessary to it.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ad. Smith</hi>,
B., II, Introd. <hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, Neue Grundlegung, I, 215. In many
instances, a division of labor, of course, favors the saving of capital. If every
workman needed all the tools necessary to the work in which he participates,
three-fourths of them would have to lie idle at present. <hi rend='italic'>J. Rae</hi>,
New Principles on the Subject of Political Economy, 164.</note>
It may be even said, that all preparatory
labor becomes capital in its relation to subsequent labor. If
ten isolated workmen can produce ten dozen articles of any
kind, daily, and, after the introduction of a more efficient division
of labor, fifty dozen, the employer must provide them, in
the latter case, not only with five times as much capital, but
probably with fifty times as much, as then, five hundred dozen
are making continually.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LX. Influence Of The Extent Of The Market On The
Division Of Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LX.</head>
<head>Influence Of The Extent Of The Market On The Division
Of Labor.</head>

<p>
But it is the extent of the market especially which determines
the limits of the division of labor; for there is a direct
and necessary relation between the division of labor and the
exchange of its surplus. Hence, the division of labor may be
carried farthest in the case of those products which are most
easily transported from place to place, and which, at the same
time, possess the utility that is most widely recognized. The
smallness of the market may depend upon the scantiness of
the population, or upon its scattered condition;<note place='foot'>This
necessity is observable, although in a peculiar form, even where
what has been called the <q>despotic organization of labor</q> prevails, instead
of freedom.</note> upon their
<pb n='194'/><anchor id='Pg194'/>
smaller ability to pay, or upon the bad means of communication
at their disposal.<note place='foot'>In the highlands of Scotland, in Adam Smith's
time, there were no smiths who manufactured nails only; for the reason that no smith
had a market for more than 1,000 nails a year, that is not for so many as might be
manufactured in a single day.</note> Hence it is, that in villages, small cities, and
still more on isolated farms, many branches of business are
carried on by one person, which are divided among many in
larger cities; and this is especially true in the case of businesses
which have a chiefly local demand.<note place='foot'>It is of course very different when
there is question of a foreign market, even if it be only indirectly. Thus, for
instance, there are in the Hartz mountains, persons who are simply post-makers,
trough-makers, chess-wood-makers, block-hewers, shingle-makers etc.</note>
While, in small places,
the barber is also frequently the physician, in larger ones there
are dentists, oculists, accoucheurs, surgeons etc.<note place='foot'>Too much should
not be inferred from the existence among the Egyptians of physicians, specialists
for the several members of the body. <hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, II,
84. Something analogous is to be found even among barbarous nations; but
it is accounted for entirely by the superstition of the people. See
<hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, Kulturgeschichte, I, 266.</note>; and while, in
the former, the tavern keeper is both dry goods merchant and
grocer, there are, in the latter, tea merchants, cigar-dealers,
dealers in mourning goods (in London childbed-linen warehouses)
etc., and hotels for all the different classes of travelers.
There can be a distinct class of porters, hack-men etc., only
where commerce is very active.<note place='foot'>In the whole of Hesse, there were under
Philip the Magnanimous, only two apothecaries, one at Cassel and one at Marburg.
<hi rend='italic'>Rommel</hi>, Gesch. v. Hessen, IV, p. 419, note. And there were no
bakers among the Romans before the time of the war with Perseus. All the bread needed
by the family was baked by the wife or by female domestics.
<hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, H. N. XVIII, 28. The
common oven in new towns marks the period of transition. Even yet, in
the central part of France, there are localities where each family bakes its
own bread for a whole month in advance; and, in the Alpine departments for
even a year in advance. <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours II, 366.</note>
And even in cities like Paris,
where the costly industries that minister to luxury, that of the
jeweler, for instance, admit of only a limited division of labor,
this effect depends on the smallness of the market; a market, indeed,
<pb n='195'/><anchor id='Pg195'/>
which geographically may extend over the whole earth,
but which, in an economic sense, must always remain small,
on account of the small number of customers who have the
ability to pay for their products. The real wonders produced
by the division of labor and the employment of machinery we
must look for in the manufacture of the cheapest and commonest
commodities.<note place='foot'>It is obvious from the foregoing that, in decaying
nations, in which the market contracts and capital decreases, the division of labor
also must grow less.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXI. The Division Of Labor&mdash;Means Of Increasing
It.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXI.</head>
<head>The Division Of Labor&mdash;Means Of Increasing It.</head>

<p>
Whoever, therefore, would increase the division of labor
among the people, must, first of all, extend their market; and
this is done most efficiently by improving the means of communication.
Even in our day, it is over the water-highroads
that the heaviest articles are carried with the least
expenditure of force;<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>Arago</hi>,
a horse uses the same amount of force to draw 20
cwt. along an ordinary road that he does to draw 200 over a railroad track,
or 1,200 on a canal. He could carry scarcely 2 or 3 on his back! Moniteur,
1838, No. 116. It is, however, certain that the introduction of our railroads
has somewhat detracted from the advantages of coasts.</note>
but where civilization is not advanced,
these highroads possess still greater advantages, because
of their safety, convenience and priority. And here is
the explanation of the intimate connection of the beginnings of
all civilizations with the existence, near the scene of such beginnings,
of good natural water-roads. <q>Even the wildest inhabitant
of the sea coast very soon obtains the idea of distance,
which is altogether wanting to the inhabitant of the primeval
forest. No sooner does he catch sight of the far-off island than
his yearning after the distant assumes a well-defined character.
Bits of wood floating past him suggest to his mind the
<pb n='196'/><anchor id='Pg196'/>
best material to buoy himself up upon the water, and a fish
the best form for his craft.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Klemm.</hi>) Hence the Mediterranean
sea, especially the eastern portion, with the various
peoples and products of its coasts, with its numerous
islands, peninsulas and bays, its easy navigation, but little influenced
by the tides or by ocean currents, was the principal
seat of ancient civilization.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, Essai politique sur l'Ile de Cuba, II, 205.</note>
The literal meaning of Attica is
coast-land. (<hi rend='italic'>Strabo.</hi>) The colonization of a new country is
wont, where possible, to begin on the coast, especially on islands
near the coast; and to follow the course of rivers into the interior.
Even whole continents occupy, for the most part, in
the history of the world, the position assigned them by their
coast-development.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, II, 121 ff.
In Europe, there is one mile of coast to every 31 square
miles in the interior; in North America, to 56; in South America, 91; in
Asia, 100; in Africa, 142. (<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt.</hi>)</note>
While it is hard to determine whether,
in the case of the European continent, its limbs predominate
or its trunk, Africa may be said to be a trunk without members.
Its islands, most of them insignificant in themselves,
are almost entirely cut off from it by ocean currents. This explains
why Madagascar had not, by any means, the influence
on African civilization which Crete, Sicily and Britain
have had on the civilization of Europe. Asia occupies, in this
respect, about a middle position between Europe and Africa.
The trunk of that continent bears to its members about the
proportion of 670,000 to 150,000 square miles. And what is
worst of all, the middle of the whole is an almost insurmountable
wall between north, south, east and west Asia. Hence
the tenacious peculiarity and isolated development of the
Chinese, Malayan, Indian and Arabic civilizations; while the
three peninsulas of southern Europe, for instance, have affected
one another so largely, and in so many different ways.<note place='foot'>If the
original connection of the Caspian sea and the sea of Aral with
the Frozen Ocean were still in existence, it is probable that an Asiatic Scandinavia
would have been formed in consequence.</note>
The northern hemisphere compared with the southern, presents
<pb n='197'/><anchor id='Pg197'/>
a contrast similar to that between Europe and Africa, or
of the rich coast-groups of the Atlantic compared with the
poor ones of the Pacific.<note place='foot'>What is true of the sea in this respect
may be claimed, also, though in a less degree, for the streams that carry the
civilizing fruits of the coasts far into the interior. Nearly all large cities not
situated on the harbors of coasts derive their importance from rivers; especially when
they have been built on spots adapted by nature to the transhipment of merchandise. That
Venice finally eclipsed Genoa is to be ascribed, in greatest part, to its control
of an important stream, the Po. The economic importance of Holland, of
Hamburg and Bremen will, in the long run, bear the same relation to one
another as the geographical importance of the valleys of the Rhine, Elbe
and Weser. As nothing is more disastrous to a nation than the loss of its
coast (we need only cite the efforts of the Lybian kings and, later, of Philip
of Macedon to conquer the Greek colonies on their coasts; and in more recent
times, of Russia before Peter the Great, or of the Zollverein without
the shores of the German sea), so, also, the economic and political influence
of a stream increases as one approaches its mouth. Hence the justification
of the great interest taken by Germany and Austria in the question
of the Danubian principalities. The United States recognized this fact when
they purchased Louisiana for 80,000,000 francs. <hi rend='italic'>Bignon</hi>, Hist. de
France III, 111 seq. Readers of history are familiar with the important part played
by the three Asiatic Mesopotamias: that between the Euphrates and the
Tigris; that between the Ganges and the Brahmapootra; that between the
Hoang-Ho and the Yang-tse-Kiang, to which finally the Punjab might be
added. This relation is recognized by popular consciousness, in the case of
the Ganges, by the belief in the sacredness of the stream. No river has had
so much influence on civilization as the Nile: its periodical risings have
made the labor of agriculture extraordinarily easy; their extent and regularity
favored the progress of astronomy; the flooding over of the land led to
geodesy; the hydraulic labors necessitated by the rising of the waters produced
a school of architecture to which the river furnished an excellent means of
transportation for the enormous masses to be moved. <hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>,
Erdkunde, I, p. 880 seq; VI, p. 1,168 seq. In this matter, also, America and
Europe have the advantage over Asia and Africa. While the Danube is,
in places, scarcely three German miles from the Rhine&mdash;which, however,
flows in an almost opposite direction&mdash;in Asia, the eastern streams are separated
from the western, and the northern from the southern, by a strip of
land difficult to be traveled, and about 300 German miles in extent. Besides,
the principal streams of northern Asia have their exit into the Frozen Ocean,
a fact which diminishes their importance greatly. The source of the Missouri
is only about one mile distant from the Columbia river, although the
two flow towards opposite seas.</note> But it is most especially, large,
well-watered plains that are best adapted to the construction
of roads, and thus to facilitate the division of labor. And
while we find, in many countries, that the mountainous regions
reached a certain stage of development earlier than any
others, because they were more easily protected by military
force, we find, too, that even here, plains, have, for the most
part, had the largest share of power and of civilization (northern
Italy, northern France, the plains of Switzerland and
<pb n='198'/><anchor id='Pg198'/>
north Germany). See § <ref target="Section_36">36</ref>.<note place='foot'>The
law governing the march of civilization from the mountain to the plain and to
coast lands was observed even by <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, XIII, 592, and partly
by <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, De Leg., 677 ff.</note> We must not, however, fail to
consider the reverse side of the picture of the great highways
of the world. The same reasons that raise them to the dignity
of lines of commerce, make them lines of war; and even
the contagion of great plagues and of the ruling vices follows,
as a rule, the avenues of trade.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXII. The Reverse, Or Dark Side Of The Division Of
Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_62"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXII.</head>
<head>The Reverse, Or Dark Side Of The Division Of Labor.</head>

<p>
There are hardships often attending the highly developed
division of labor, the dark and bright sides of which are most
strikingly observable only in large cities. However, when it
is charged with adding to the natural inequality of men, the
accusation can be met only by the answer, that, without the
division of labor, we should be all equally poor and equally
coarse; for each one would be absorbed by the necessity of
providing for his lower wants, and no one would be in a way
to develop his higher faculties. Even the poorest man has
more enjoyment in consequence of the division of labor, than
he could have living in a state of isolation from his fellow men.
The most wretched among us, the invalid without property
of any kind, the father of a family with more children than
he can support, would simply starve in the primeval forest.
</p>

<pb n='199'/><anchor id='Pg199'/>

<p>
Those socialists who never tire of preaching <q>association,</q>
overlook for the most part, the great, free association which
our needs, wants or tastes are ever changing, and which is
given us, as of course, by the division of labor.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance,
that all the customers of a shoemaker together form a shoe-association etc.
<hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>, Liberté du Travail, L. IV, ch. 10.</note> Yet the skill
produced by the division of labor is unavoidably connected
with a corresponding one-sidedness. The Russians, for instance,
are exceedingly apt, but they rarely distinguish themselves
in any thing.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, III, 188 ff.
The Dutch traveler, <hi rend='italic'>Usselinx</hi>, speaks in a similar way of the
imitativeness and many-sidedness of the Swedes (Argonautica Gustavica, 20). Chilian
servants (<hi rend='italic'>peones</hi>) are a good combination of the cook, the
muleteer, builder, courier etc. Once they have passed over a road, they never forget
it. A knife stands them in stead of most tools, and pieces of leather in stead of
nails. <hi rend='italic'>Pöppig</hi>, Reise, I, 171 ff.</note> Love of his avocation,
or pride in it, is a thing unknown to the Russian workman. He shirks all continuous
labor.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>von Haxthausen</hi>, Studien, I, 63, 113.
In 1827, a Russian hatter got 12 rubles for a hat, a German one 35
(<hi rend='italic'>Schön</hi>, N. Œkonomie, 78).</note> Experience has
shown that the Neapolitans and Italians, in general, exhibit great skill when they work
alone; but that when a great many of them work together,
they become rapidly confused. The English, on the other
hand, are slow to learn anything new, or to overcome unlooked
for difficulties; but they have no equals as workmen in organized
industries.<note place='foot'>See the report of a large manufacturer in
<hi rend='italic'>Kohl</hi>, England und Wales, p. 332 seq.</note>
The difficulty experienced in seeking a new
calling, where a high division of labor obtains, arises as much
from the fact that each person here has received a more one-sided
training, as from the necessity he is under of competing
from the first with only consummate workers. Rousseau's
school has laid too much stress on the tendency of higher civilization
to diminish individual independence. <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Quand
on sait creuser un canot, battre l'ennemi, construire une cabane, vivre de
peu, faire cent lieues dans les forêts sans autre guide que le vent
et le soleil, sans autre provision qu'un arc et des flêches; c'est
<pb n='200'/><anchor id='Pg200'/>
alors qu'on est un homme!</foreign><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Raynal</hi>,
Histoire des Indes (1780), L. XV. And so <hi rend='italic'>Rousseau</hi>, Discours
sur l'Inegalité (1754), who also declaims against all kinds of capital; were
there no ladders, men would climb better; and throw a stone better if they
had no slings. There is certainly a misunderstood truth in this saying. It
is assuredly very salutary, in the actual state of society, in which every one's
business is transacted for him by some one else, that a time should occasionally
come when no one can take our place, and a man can only call upon
himself. And herein lies the immense value which just war, when not much
prolonged, but which is brought to a happy termination, sometimes has upon
the life of a people.</note> We might reply that to build a
steamship or a palace, and to travel around the world are far
better. (<hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer.</hi>) Even physically, civilized man is superior
to the savage, as might be inferred from the greater
average duration of life of the former. Of course, extremes
should not be compared, nor should we contrast the frame of
a weaver or student with that of a savage chief.<note place='foot'>The American savages
are, on an average, weaker than the whites. In a fist-fight the Kentuckians and
Virginians showed themselves far superior to the Indians. See
<hi rend='italic'>Lawrence</hi>, Lectures, 403, <hi rend='italic'>supra</hi>, §
<ref target="Section_40">40</ref>.</note>
</p>

<p>
In a similar way, the one-sidedness of the international
division of labor may be pregnant with great danger to national
independence.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXIII. Dark Side Of The Division Of Labor.&mdash;Its
Gain And Loss.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXIII.</head>
<head>Dark Side Of The Division Of Labor.&mdash;Its Gain And
Loss.</head>

<p>
Where, indeed, the one-sidedness produced by the division
of labor goes so far as to cause the degeneration<note place='foot'>For a very
unprejudiced estimate of the dark and bright sides of the division <emph>of
labor</emph>, even before Adam Smith's time, see <hi rend='italic'>Ferguson</hi>,
History of of Civil Society (1767), IV, I, V, 3 ff. Also <hi rend='italic'>Garve</hi>,
Versuche, III, 41. <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> was not blind to the dark side of
the division <emph>of</emph> labor, which, in part, he would remove by popular
instruction at the expense of the state, and by a species of compulsory education. W.
of N., V, ch. 1, 3, art. 2. One of the chief peculiarities of <hi rend='italic'>J.
Möser's</hi> Political Economy is his great opposition to all highly developed
division of labor. Patr. Ph., I, 2, 21, III, 32, 34.</note> of the workman's
personality, the human loss of the nation is greater than
<pb n='201'/><anchor id='Pg201'/>
the material gain purchased by it. Thus the occupation of
polishing metals or gilding, when continued for a long time
without interruption, invariably ruins the health. What must
be the aspect of the soul of a workman who, for forty years has
done nothing but watch the moment when silver has reached
the degree of fusion which precedes vaporization! who is blind to all else, but
receives a good fat salary for his services.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>von
Ledebur</hi>, Reise in Altai, I, 384. The working together of wife and
child, introduced recently by manufacturers, cannot be considered as a higher
grade of the division of labor, but only as a very unfavorable change in the
kind of it; inasmuch as it were better to employ the women in their domestic
avocations and to leave children to their studies and their sports. Among
the higher classes, it should be made the part of female education, to counterbalance,
in the family, the effects of the ever increasing division of labor
among the male portion, by the development of that which is universally
human&mdash;art, sociability, house-keeping etc.</note>
Schleiermacher rightly declared all human action which is
purely mechanical, through which man becomes a living tool
(slave!) immoral. When the division of labor has reached
this point, machines should take the place of men. The morality
of a profession may be measured by the degree in which it corresponds with the universal
calling of the race.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Schleiermacher</hi>,
Christliche Sitte, 465 ff., 676 ff., 154 ff. From a similar
feeling, although much exaggerated, the Greeks of the classic age proper
considered all callings followed for gain dishonorable, not excepting even
those of the physician and of the teacher. <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, de Rep.,
I, 347 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>,
Rhet., I, 9, 27: μηδεμίαν ἐργάζεσθαι βὰναυσον τέχνην, ἐλευθέρον
γάρ τὸ μὴ πρὸς ἄλλον ζην.</note> It is
not, therefore, a piece of inconsistency but rather a deeply felt
want, when, where civilization is at its highest, so many demands
are made that the division of labor should take a retrograde
path. The practice of gymnastic exercises by the
sedentary classes, universal military duty, the participation of
citizens in municipal government and in political affairs, of laymen
in the government of the church, of the wealthy in the
administration of charity; all these things are, from a materialistic
stand-point, considered a great squandering of time. It
may be, that, if the division of labor were more rigidly carried
<pb n='202'/><anchor id='Pg202'/>
out, we might, by its means, obtain more perfect results
with less economic expense. But the whole man is of more
importance than the sum of his achievements and enjoyments.
(Luke, 9:25.) Wo to the nation where only jurists have a
developed sense of the right, where political judgment and
cultivated patriotism are the portion of only officials and placemen,
where only the standing army has warlike courage, and
the clergy only conscious religiousness; where parents leave
all care for education to the teachers of the various branches
of learning, and where physical vigor is to be found only
among the proletarians. Hence there is nothing more ruinous
than premature one-sided education in a single trade or
profession&mdash;a thing which often happens from poverty before
the foundations of the general education becoming a human
being have been laid. The higher a man's position, the
more should he, so to speak, be a representative of the whole
human race. Who, for instance, would wish to see a ruler
brought up as men are to a special branch of science or to a
special profession?<note place='foot'>As, for instance, the superintendent of a
manufactory must have a better general training, but can get along with less of a
special, than his workmen.</note><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Thucydides</hi>
says of the contemporaries of Pericles: <q>The same men
devote themselves, among us, in part to domestic and political business;
in part, others who busy themselves with agriculture and industry have
no mean knowledge of the affairs of state. We call those who take no part
in the former not people loving their ease, but useless men.</q> (II, 40.)
During the succeeding period, Athens was destroyed mainly by the ever
increasing division of labor between citizens and soldiers. For, <q>to separate
the arts which form the citizen and the statesman, the arts of policy and
war, is an attempt to dismember the human character, and to destroy those
very arts we mean to improve.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Ferguson.</hi>) We know from
<hi rend='italic'>Valerius Maximus</hi>, that the Roman soldiers from the time of Marius
had, doubtless, a better technic training than their ancestors who who defeated Hannibal;
but was it in a military or political sense that they were thus better trained?
The beautiful definition of Cato intimates something of the same nature;
the good orator was <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>vir bonus dicendi
peritus</foreign>. (<hi rend='italic'>Quintilian</hi>, XII, I.) And so
<hi rend='italic'>Garve</hi>, Versuche, IV, 51 ff., expects from the political elevation
of citizenship, of those possessed of the right of citizens, not only usefulness in a
particular direction but the development of the whole man, a thing hitherto expected
only of the nobility.</note> The best corrective for the one-sidedness
<pb n='203'/><anchor id='Pg203'/>
produced by a high division of labor consists in the extension
and many-sided employment of leisure time, both of
which are made more easy by the same high civilization which
always accompanies the division of labor.<note place='foot'>As one's
peculiar calling does not take up all his life, we must draw a
clear distinction between the one-sidedness of labor and the one-sidedness of life,
(<hi rend='italic'>von Mangoldt</hi>, Volkswirthschaftslehre, 227.) Only the last is to
be avoided at all hazards; and we find it in the middle ages, with its limited divisions
of labor, perhaps more frequently than where civilization has attained
a higher stage. During the middle ages, it was not unusual to make
feelings which every one should cultivate at times, if only temporarily, the
lasting calling of some. Thus one prayed his whole life long, or was engaged
in contemplation, and relieved others of the necessity of performing
these duties. The consequence was, that the latter sank as deeply in worldliness
and want of the interior spirit as the former were plunged in idleness
and hypocrisy. But, on the other hand, when, in our day, the printer relieves
the writer of a portion of the labor which might be his, the personal
development of neither suffers.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXIV. The Co-Operation Of Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXIV.'/>
<anchor id="Section_64"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXIV.</head>
<head>The Co-Operation Of Labor.</head>

<p>
The coöperation or combination<note place='foot'><foreign lang='it'
rend='font-style: italic'>L'uomo è un' tal potenza, che unita all' altra non fa un
eguale alla somma, ma al quadrato della somma.</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>Genovesi.</hi>) As to how the action of every individual
man is a species of division and union of different kinds of labor, see
<hi rend='italic'>Stein</hi>, Lehrbuch, 24.</note> of labor must, however,
always correspond to the division of labor. Both are but different
sides of the one idea of social labor; the separation of
different kinds of labor, in so far as they would disturb one
another, and the union or combination of them so far as they
help one another.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi>, Elemente
der Staatskunst, III, 1809. <hi rend='italic'>Fr. List</hi>, System der polit.
Œkonomie, 222 ff., 409 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Wakefield</hi>, in his edition of Adam
Smith, distinguishes two degrees of coöperation, simple and complex. In
the case of simple labor, the same sort of work is performed at the same
time and place by several individuals, as, for instance, by a lot of hod-carriers
in building. In the other case, there are different kinds of work performed
at different times and places, but all intended for the one greater end. Agriculture
affords room for the first especially, and it is known also to a great
number of animal species.</note> The vintner or grower of flax would necessarily
<pb n='204'/><anchor id='Pg204'/>
die of hunger if he could not certainly count on the grower
of corn. The workman in a pin-factory, who prepares only
the heads of pins, must be sure of his colleagues who sharpen
the points, if his labor would not be entirely in vain. The labor
of the merchant is not even thinkable without that of the
different producers between whom he mediates. Where the
production of a certain article depends on the services of six
different kinds of labor, one of which, however, demands thrice
the time, and another twice the time of the rest, it is clear,
that, in order that the business may be properly carried on, so
many workmen should be employed that their number divided
by 9 should leave no remainder. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau.</hi>) The union or combination
of different kinds of labor is most perfect when the
workmen live nearest together; when, therefore, they are not
separated by great difficulties of transportation; or in different
countries, in which case, a war might tear all to pieces.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXV. The Principle Of Stability, Or Of The Continuity
Of Work.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXV.</head>
<head>The Principle Of Stability, Or Of The Continuity
Of Work.</head>

<p>
Coöperation in time is of equal importance: the principle of
the stability, or of the continuity of labor. When a workman
dies, it is necessary to be able to calculate on a substitute. It
is well known that it is much harder to begin a business, than
it is, afterwards, to improve and enlarge it; and this, the more
complicated it is. A new enterprise will take root easily, only
where there are several similar ones already in existence; a
new manufacturing establishment, for instance, where by the
existence of other such establishments, the requisite habits of
the workmen, of capitalists and of the public in general, have
been previously developed. The skill of workmen is propagated
especially by observation and the personal emulation of
<pb n='205'/><anchor id='Pg205'/>
the young; whence it is, that the introduction of new industries
is best made by the immigration of skilled workmen.<note place='foot'>Flemish weavers
in England, French refugees in Protestant countries;
German miners in Spain, Scandinavia, Hungary and America.</note>
Hence the baleful influence of such interruptions, as for instance,
the repeal of the edict of Nantes. Hence too, it is,
that despotism and the reign of the populace are so unfavorable
to the economy of a country, where there can be no guarantee
of a consistent observance and development of the laws.
To the best applications of the principle of the continuity
of labor belong the church-building of the middle ages, the
national canals, the street and fortification systems of modern
times; all of which have been created only by the coöperation
of several generations to the same end.<note place='foot'>This,
so very largely developed in Egypt and India, where the principle
of caste obtains, is very little developed in the despotisms of Asia. The great
princes, in the latter countries, build largely from vanity only. Hence their
successors seldom complete their works, and scarcely repair them. Nowhere
else are there so many half completed and yet decaying buildings.
<hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, Kulturgeschichte, VIII, 86. <hi rend='italic'>Riedel</hi>,
N. Œkonomie I, 259, very correctly remarks
that such kinds of coöperation as contribute most to the propagation
of skill, both in commerce and manual labor, have less real division of labor,
and vice versa.</note> The most striking
means by which such a coöperation has been advanced in
modern times is public credit, <q>a draft on posterity;</q> yet, all
saving is, in principle, the same. The most powerful element
in the coöperation in time of labor is the economy in common
of the family, although it differs in degree, according to the
different kinds of family inheritance. Where, as among the
English middle classes, it is customary to secure the business
property of the family to one child by will, and to entrust the
conduct of the business, during the life of the father, to the
devisee, to provide for the other children by insurance, by savings
etc., made from the surplus of the business, there may be
old firms which remain always new, however; because they
combine the experience of age with the energy of youth, and
are never broken up by a division of the inheritance. But the
<pb n='206'/><anchor id='Pg206'/>
compulsory equality of heirs, which actually obtains in France,
compels almost every new generation to begin with a new
firm. (See § <ref target="Section_85">85</ref> seq.)<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Leplay</hi>, La Réforme sociale en France (1864).</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXVI. Advantage Of Large Enterprises.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXVI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXVI.</head>
<head>Advantage Of Large Enterprises.</head>

<p>
On the results of the division and coöperation of labor rests
the superior advantage of all great undertakings, and they are,
therefore, smaller in agriculture than in industry. <q>It is
harder to acquire the first thousand than the second million.</q>
Abstraction made of the conditions of capital and of the market,
the limit up to which the growing magnitude of an enterprise
becomes more advantageous, lies in the increasing difficulty
of superintendence. Numberless commercial improvements,
such as the post-office, railroads, telegraphs, exchange, banks
etc., have operated powerfully to extend these limits. It is
frequently possible, even in small enterprises, to secure the advantages
of large enterprises, by association among those concerned.
They must, of course, possess the necessary capital.
If they have not got it, as property, they must borrow it. It
is, of course, peculiarly difficult here to preserve the necessary
unity, without which the coöperation of labor becomes
the confusion of labor. The more moral and intelligent the
participants are and the simpler the business, the more extensive
may it become, and the more probable will be its success.
(§ <ref target="Section_90">90</ref>.)<note place='foot'>Concerning association in
general, see <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III, Leçon,
24, 25. On this subject so much talked of in our day, see, more in detail, concerning
its application to agriculture, my work, Nationalökonomik des
Ackerbaues, 4, § 39, 47 ff.; 68, 133 ff.; on its application to industry, especially
where there is question of the relation of handiwork and manufactures to large
factories; see <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Ansichten der Volkswirthschaft, II,
Aufl., 1861, Abhandlung, IV, V.</note><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi> remarked that the laws of the division of labor obtain also in
intellectual works; and indeed, among all nations in a very low grade of
civilization, the germs of all art and science are found connected with theology;
and later, the germs of all poetry and history with the epic. The expression:
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>non defuit homini, sed scientiæ, quod
nescivit Salmasius</foreign>, is a clear
proof of the insignificance of the science of the time. Think of the increase
during the last hundred years of the branches of study in our German universities.
There are now thirty-four regular professors in the Leipzig
philosophical faculty, where then there were only nine. But here also the
principle proves true, that an excessive division of labor, where the broader
connection and the deeper foundation of all sciences disappear from the consciousness,
undermines intellectual health and freedom. And the injury here is
greater and more irreparable than in the domain of mere physical labor. See
<hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, N. Grundlegung, I, 207 ff. If we have just become
Alexandrians, we have, however, no Aristotle to hope for. <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>Jurisprudentia est divinarum atque humanarum rerum notitia,
justi atque injusti scientia</foreign> (<hi rend='italic'>Ulpian</hi>). It is remarkable
that nations who possess no real national literature of their own,
when they once get beyond the bounds of utter barbarism, learn foreign languages
etc., most easily.</note><note place='foot'>The socialistic utopia of
<hi rend='italic'>Ch. Fourier</hi> (Théorie des quatre Mouvements,
1808. Théorie de l'Unité universelle, 1822. Le nouveau Monde industriel
et sociétaire, 1829) are based upon the following fundamental ideas. A. The
present civilization is that of a topsy-turvy world, especially in so far as it
ascribes a <q>moral</q> (a word always used by him in an ironical sense) self-government
to man. In Fourier's world, on the other hand, every man is supposed, at all times, to
give free rein to every <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>passion</foreign>;
and the play of these gratifications constitutes the <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>harmonie</foreign>, in which the poorest find more
enjoyment than do kings at the present time. (See § 207 of this work.) B.
The main thing to further this is a radical reform in the division and cooperation
of labor as they exist at present. Instead of the present villages
and cities, we should have only phalansteries, each with 2,000 inhabitants, and
situated in the center of the land cultivated by them. Instead of the present
nations and states, we should have a universal confederate republic, hierarchically
graded, with French as the universal language. According to the demands
of the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>passion papillonne</foreign>,
each one should carry on the most different kinds of business side by side, and
each one of them at most two hours per day; i.e., every one should be a dilettante, no
one a master, and everything should be done as badly as possible.
<hi rend='italic'>Proudhon</hi>, Contradictions économiques,
ch. 3, objects to this, that a workman must, in some way, be held responsible
for his work. <hi rend='italic'>Fourier</hi> himself calculates that, in his
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>harmonie</foreign> all pleasures
are productive labor; and that by this constant change, one might be
satisfied with from 4-½ to 5-½ hours of sleep, and that even children 2-½ years
old might take part in the work. Thus, there would be a great rivalry between
apple-growers and pear-growers, so great <q>that more intrigues in attack
and defense [<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>passion cabaliste</foreign>]
would arise there than in all the cabinets of Europe,</q> in the settling of which the
growers of quinces would act as intermediaries.
There are, in addition to all this, wonderful aids; a fructifying
crown of light rises over the north pole; oranges bloom in Siberia; the sea
becomes as delicious as lemonade; dangerous animals die, and in their stead
anti-lions and anti-whales come into being, animals useful to man, which
draw his ships for him during calms. These ideas are by no means retracted
in <hi rend='italic'>Fourier's</hi> later works, See Nouveau Monde (Oeuvres) IV, 447.
The propositions of <hi rend='italic'>Robert Owen</hi>, A new View of Society (1812),
have much similarity with those of Fourier. They differ only in the absence of the
French barrack-like character of the phalanxes, and the fantastic character of the
presentation of the doctrine. He would have all the land divided into districts
of 1,000 acres each; each district to have a four-cornered town with 1,000
inhabitants, following a system of production and consumption in common,
but not with full equality; carrying on both agriculture and other business.
A principal feature here is an entirely new system of education. The author
says that man has hitherto been the slave of an execrable trinity: positive religion,
personal property and indissoluble wedlock. (Declaration of mental
independence.)</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='207'/><anchor id='Pg207'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter IV. Freedom And Slavery.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter IV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter IV.</head>
<head>Freedom And Slavery.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXVII. The Origin Of Slavery.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXVII.</head>
<head>The Origin Of Slavery.</head>

<p>
An institution like that of personal bondage, which, it can
be shown, has existed, among all nations of which history gives
<pb n='208'/><anchor id='Pg208'/>
us information, at one time or another, must have very general
causes. Among these may be mentioned especially subjection
through war. It is not possible to calculate how much
the principle, that it was proper to reduce the man to slavery
<pb n='209'/><anchor id='Pg209'/>
whom it was considered right to kill, contributed to make war
less bloody in an uncivilized age.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Tacitus</hi>, Histor., II, 44.</note> A nation of hunters is almost
compelled to grant no quarter; the conqueror would be
obliged either to feed his prisoner or to put arms in his hands.
It is certainly a great humanitarian advance, when this state
of things is superseded by slavery among nomadic nations.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Iselin</hi>, Geschichte der Menschheit (1764), III, 7.
<hi rend='italic'>Bazard</hi>, Exposition de la Doctrine de Saint Simon, 1831, 153.
Among negro nations deprivation of freedom is one of the most usual punishments for
crime; but the criminal has the option of substituting his wife or child for himself.
<hi rend='italic'>L.A. de Oliveira Mendez</hi>, in the Memor. econom. of the Royal
Academy of Lisbon, vol. IV, I, 1812. As to slavery on account of crime among the
Germans, see <hi rend='italic'>Grimm,</hi> D. Rechtsalterth., 328 seq.</note>
</p>

<p>
In times of peace, economic dependence is the result of poverty,
excessive debt etc.<note place='foot'>Loss at play was a frequent cause of slavery among
the ancient Germans. <hi rend='italic'>Tacit.</hi>, Germ., 24. For the principal causes
of slavery among the Israelites, see the books of Moses, II, 22, 3; III, 25, 39; IV, 21,
26 seq.; among the Indians, Laws of Menu, VIII, 415. The first serfs of Russia were
prisoners of war and their children. The laws of Jaroslaws recognize, besides, the
following causes: insolvency, contracting marriage with a slave, the illegal
breach of a contract for service, flight, unconditional contract for service.
<hi rend='italic'>Karamsin</hi>, Russ. Gesch., II, 37.</note> Where there is no division
of labor, the individual has no means of supplying his wants, except by
cultivating a spot of ground. But, how can the poor wretch
who has neither capital<note place='foot'>At least seed and the means of subsistence
until harvest time.</note> nor land exchange anything of value
for either? Such an advance, where there is no security in
law, can be made only on the credit of a very important pledge.
But the man who is destitute of all property can offer nothing
but the productive power of himself or of his family.<note place='foot'>Cases of
voluntary slavery to escape famine. <hi rend='italic'>Papencordt</hi>, Geschichte
der Vandalen, 186; <hi rend='italic'>Victor</hi>, Chron., V, 17; Tur., VII, 45; Lex
Bajuv, VI, 3; L. Fris, XI, I. According to the Edictum Pistense (a., 864), c., 34, one
could free himself again by paying back the purchase money and 20 per
cent. in addition. It frequently happened that people spontaneously accepted
the condition of a vassal in order to enjoy the protection of a powerful
personage. See <hi rend='italic'>Stüve</hi>, Lasten des Grundeigenthums, p. 74. In
1812, a young Himalayan offered himself to the traveler Moorcroft as a slave in order
to obtain food during the famine. <hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, III, p.
999. The same fact occurred, but in greater proportions under Joseph in Egypt.
<hi rend='italic'>Moses</hi>, I, 47, 18 seq.</note> And
<pb n='210'/><anchor id='Pg210'/>
so it is with the small landed proprietor who has lost all his
capital;<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cæsar</hi>, B.G., VI,
13.</note> for, considering the superabundance of land, the part
which he possesses has value in exchange only to the extent
that it is joined with the certainty of being cultivated; and
here is the origin of the <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>glebæ
adscriptio</foreign>. The hereditary
transmission of the relation to the children seems to be equally
useful to them; or who, were this not the case, would think
of providing them with food? It also frequently happens that
poor parents prefer to sell their children to seeing them starve.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Solon</hi> was the first to prohibit this commerce in Athens.
<hi rend='italic'>Kindlinger</hi>, in his Geschichte der deutschen Hörigkeit, p. 621,
speaks of a child promised as a slave before its birth, by its parents, as a species of
farm-rent. (See the Edictum Pistense, in <hi rend='italic'>Baluz</hi>, II, 192.) In
Chili, the poorest country people who were not entirely white, sold their children in
the towns, where they grew up with the families of their masters, and were then kept as
servants in a state of semi-serfdom. There is, it is true, no law governing this
condition of things. (<hi rend='italic'>Pöppig</hi>, Reise, I, 201 ff.)</note>
Hence the strange fact that most nations have the most rigid
system of slavery precisely at the time that the soil produces
food most readily. We need only cite the instance of the
South Sea Islands, at the time of their discovery. In many
negro countries, where the people have not yet learned to use
animals for transportation, the lowest classes, although they
enjoy a nominal liberty, are used as beasts of burden.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, XIII, 727. For instance, men in South America used for the
purpose of riding. <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours, I, 251;
<hi rend='italic'>Lœwenstern</hi>, Le Mexique, Souvenirs d'un Voyageur (1843); and
<hi rend='italic'>Stephens</hi>, Travels in Yucatan (1841),
show how, even yet, in Central America, although the Indians are legally
free, yet, by their senseless way of running into debt, a number of legal relations,
amounting virtually to <hi rend='italic'>glebæ adscriptio</hi>, arise. But compare,
however, <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, Neuspanien, IV, 263. This condition of things
has been produced in Peru, also, by the payment of one or two years' wages in advance.
(<hi rend='italic'>Pöppig</hi>, Reise, II, 225.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='211'/><anchor id='Pg211'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXVIII. The Same Subject Continued.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXVIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_68"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXVIII.</head>
<head>The Same Subject Continued.</head>

<p>
In all very low stages of civilization, the greatest absence
of the feeling of wants, and the greatest indolence, are wont
to prevail, and in the highest degree. As soon as their merest
necessities are provided for, men begin to look upon labor as
a disgraceful occupation, and indolence as the highest kind of
enjoyment. (§ <ref target="Section_41">41</ref>, 213 ff.) Sustained and voluntary efforts,
in any number, then become possible only by the creation of
new wants; but these new wants suppose a higher civilization.
Escape from this sorry circle is then effected in the most humane
manner, through the agency of foreign teachers; inasmuch
as the representatives of a more highly cultivated people
(missionaries, merchants etc.), by their own example, make
the nation acquainted with more wants, and at the same time
help toward their satisfaction.<note place='foot'>Thus <hi rend='italic'>Forbonnais</hi>,
Eléments du Commerce (1854) I, 364, says of trade with savages:
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>il fait naître dans ces nations le goût
du superflu et des commodités, qui multiplie le, échanges et leur donne le goût
du travail.</foreign></note> But, in the case of nations
whose civilization is completely isolated, or having intercourse
only with others equally low, progress is the creature of
force exclusively. The barbarous isolation of families ceases
when the strongest and most powerful force the weaker
into their service. It is now that <emph>the division of labor really
begins</emph>: the victor devotes himself entirely to work of a higher
order, to statesmanship, war, worship etc.; the very doing of
which is generally a pleasure in itself. The vanquished perform
the lower. The one-half of the people are forced to
labor for something beyond their own brute wants. And it
is, here as elsewhere, the first step that costs.<note place='foot'>In very uncivilized
nations, among whom serfdom is not known, we generally
find the slavery of woman and the temporary bondage of the son-in-law
in order to secure the daughter in marriage. This is still the case among
the Laplanders. <hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, Kulturgeschichte III, p. 54.
Slavery was unknown among the Greeks in the very earliest times.
<hi rend='italic'>Herod.</hi>, VI, 263. <hi rend='italic'>F. A. Wolf</hi>,
Darstell. der Afterthumswissenschaft, III, doubts whether any great advance
in the higher development of the mind would have been possible without
slavery.</note> (§ <ref target="Section_45">45</ref>.)
</p>

</div>

<pb n='212'/><anchor id='Pg212'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXIX. Origin Of Slavery.&mdash;Want Of Freedom.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXIX.</head>
<head>Origin Of Slavery.&mdash;Want Of Freedom.</head>

<p>
It is not to be supposed that slavery, at this stage, is so
oppressive even to those who have been deprived of their
freedom. The feeling of moral degradation which slavery,
abstraction even made of its abuses, awakens in us, is unknown
in a very uncivilized age.<note place='foot'>In Russia, where free
peasants and serfs lived side by side, it has been
remarked that the latter were never so rich and never so poor as the former.
(<hi rend='italic'>Kohl</hi>, Reise durch Russland II, 8, 300.) The
Livonian peasants have become poorer since their
emancipation. (<hi rend='italic'>Cancrin</hi>, Œkonomie der menschlichen
Gesellschaften, 41). Many of the serfs refused to accept emancipation.
(<hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, Einleitung, § 6.)
And so <hi rend='italic'>Martius</hi>, Reise in Brasilien
II, 552 ff., assures us that the negro slaves in Brazil are as a rule a very
merry set. He is also of the opinion that they are better clothed, lodged,
fed and employed than in their own country. For the remarkable official
defense of North American slavery directed by
<hi rend='italic'>Calhoun</hi>, to Lord Aberdeen,
see the Allg. Zeitung, 1844, No. 145. In this document, we find a comparison
instituted between the free negroes of the north and the slaves of the
south. In the north, there was one deaf-mute, a case of blindness and of insanity
in every 96; in the south, in every 672; a pauper, invalid and prisoner
in every 6 at the north, in every 54 at the south. In Maine, 1/12th of the
negroes were afflicted by disease; in Florida, 1/1105th(?). The fact that the
slave population of the United States increased, between 1840 and 1860, from
2,873,698 to 4,441,830, while the free negro population of Jamaica, between
1833 and 1843, underwent a frightful decrease, is to the same purport. However,
too much must not be inferred from all this, as the negroes in America
are very far from being the children of the soil.</note> The child willingly obeys the
orders of strangers, and is hired out to service by his parents
etc. The want or craving for liberty keeps pace with the intellectual
growth of a people. The systematic over-working
of servants or slaves, in the interest of their masters, is scarcely
thinkable in an uncultured age, when, in the absence of commercial
<pb n='213'/><anchor id='Pg213'/>
intercourse, every family consumes what it produces.<note place='foot'>The
servants in the Odyssey who cared for hogs and cattle etc. were certainly
in a better condition in many respects than the peasants of Attica,
who were free, but buried in debt until the time of Solon. Concerning the
mildness of the treatment of slaves in very early Roman times, see
<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Coriol., 24, and <hi rend='italic'>Cato</hi>,
I, 3, 20 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Cato</hi>, de Re rust, 5, 56 ff.;
<hi rend='italic'>Macrob.</hi>, Stat. I, 10 ff. On the state of the serfs
among the Germans, see <hi rend='italic'>Grimm</hi>, Deutsche
Rechtsalterthümer, p. 339 ff.; among the ancient Scandinavians etc.,
<hi rend='italic'>Dahlman</hi>, Geschichte von Dänemark, I, 163. See
<hi rend='italic'>Tacit.</hi>, Germ., 25.</note>
The only thing which the slave has to fear is an occasional
outburst of tyranny on the part of the master, a thing which
is far from unfrequent in all the relations of low civilizations.
Fear restrains masters to a certain extent; for, in those early
days, how few were the institutions of state which could protect
them against the vengeance of their slaves!<note place='foot'>Compare
Landnamabok, I, 6.</note><note place='foot'>The opinions of the ancients
for and against slavery are found in <hi rend='italic'>Arist.</hi>
Polit. I, 2. See especially the beautiful passages in
<hi rend='italic'>Philemon</hi>: <hi rend='italic'>Meineke</hi>, Comicorum
jr., 364, 410. <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi> even thinks that there are cases in which
master and slave might be brought together by a mutual want, each of the
other. The former wants hands to execute the work of his brain; the latter
a guiding brain for his hands. Where the degree of dependence corresponds
exactly to the difference of ability, <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>,
leaving its abuses out of the question, declares slavery to be
just. See, also, Eth. Nicom., VIII, 11. Similarly
the Pythagorean <hi rend='italic'>Bryson</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>Stobœus</hi>,
Florid. LXXXV, 15. But <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>
would hold up emancipation to all slaves as a reward they might have in
prospect. Polit VII, 9, 9; Œcon. I, 5. It is characteristic of the many testaments
of philosophers, found in <hi rend='italic'>Diogenes Laertius</hi>,
that they contain declarations giving slaves their freedom.
The Essenes and Therapeutics condemned slavery under all
circumstances. <hi rend='italic'>Philo.</hi>, Opp. II, pp. 458, 482,
Opp. I. See <hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi>, De Benef. III,
20. The <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>jus naturale</foreign> of
the age of the Cæsars recognized the freedom and equality of man. Digest, XII, 664., L.
17, 32. The New Testament does not reject it absolutely, but would sanctify
it as well as all other relations in life. Compare Luke, 17, 7; Eph. 6 5 ff.;
Coloss. 3, 22; Tit. 2, 9. More especially, I Timothy, VI, 1 ff. It was not
until the ninth century that the opinion that slavery was anti-Christian because
men were all made in the image of God, arose. <hi rend='italic'>Planck</hi>, Geschichte
der kirchlichen Gesellschaftsverfassung, II, 350. Sachsenspiegel, III, 42.
A writer as recent as <hi rend='italic'>Pufendorf</hi> explains slavery
as arising from a free contract; <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>faciam,
ut des.</foreign> Jus naturæ (1672) VI, 3. More recently
<hi rend='italic'>Linguet</hi>, Théorie des Lois civiles (1767), V,
ch. 30, and <hi rend='italic'>Hugo</hi>, Naturrecht, § 186 ff. have endeavored
to prove that slaves are in a condition preferable to that of poor free
men. And so <hi rend='italic'>Möser</hi> Patriot Phantasien, II,. p.
154, seq. Those who with <hi rend='italic'>Thaer</hi> separate the
element of production, <q>labor</q> from that of <q>intelligence,</q>
justify slavery on the same principle that Aristotle did, without knowing it.
Per contra, see <hi rend='italic'>F. G. Schultze</hi>, N. Œkonomie (1856), 418.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='214'/><anchor id='Pg214'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXX. Emancipation.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXX.</head>
<head>Emancipation.</head>

<p>
As states grow greater and men's manners gentler, the ranks
of slavery are less and less liable to be recruited through the
agency of war.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Sur
la Formation etc., § 21. The universal empire of the Romans
demonstrated this. Then it was, for instance, that during the wars of
Lucullus, a slave cost only four drachmas. (<hi rend='italic'>Appian.</hi>,
Bell. Mithr., 78.) <hi rend='italic'>Sardi venales</hi>: on account
of the glutting of the market with Sardinian slaves, made through
the victory of Tib. Gracchus, 177, before Christ. Many of the
lesser wars of the Romans can be looked upon only as slave-hunts. But the
great wars also were followed by uprisings of slaves on account of the many
new slaves which they made. Thus 198 in Latium, 196 in Etruria.
(<hi rend='italic'>Bücher</hi>, Aufstände der unfreien Arbeiter von, 143-129,
v. Chr., 1874.) During the relatively peaceful periods which
preceded many of the Roman revolutions, pirates delivered
over great masses of slaves. It frequently happened that several thousand
slaves were led to Delos and sold in a single day. (<hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>,
XIV, 668.) As emancipation was a measure which people could not make
up their minds to adopt, these pirates satisfied a <q>want</q> for a time, and this
partly explains the otherwise incomprehensible forbearance of the state towards
them.</note> It then becomes necessary to have recourse
to the family to keep up their number, which makes their
condition much more endurable, and which supposes that it
has been made more endurable in other respects beforehand.
Modern states, are, as a rule, larger than the ancient were.
The Germans had, long before the time of Charlemagne,
treated prisoners of war of German origin more mildly than
those of Gallic or Slavic origin.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Gregor.
Turon.</hi>, III, 15.</note> The condition of the latter
even improved from the time that nations began to think of
making permanent conquests. Since the Slavic wars of the
tenth century, certainly since the Lithuanian contests, it seems
that prisoners of war were not reduced to slavery.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Grimm</hi>, D. Rechtsalterthümer, 323. It is a strange fact
that prisoners of war were in several remarkable instances sold as slaves
in Italy during the fifteenth century. (<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, Hist.
des Républiques italiennes, IX, p. 312 seq.; XI, p. 138 seq.) And even in
the sixteenth century, the pope allowed those of states opposed to him to
be treated in this way. <hi rend='italic'>Sismondi, supra</hi>,
XI, 251; XIII, 485. <hi rend='italic'>Raynold</hi>, Ann. eccl. 1506, § 25 ff.</note>
Chivalry,
<pb n='215'/><anchor id='Pg215'/>
and allowing prisoners to go free, on their word of honor,
contributed largely to this result.
</p>

<p>
The more productive agriculture is, the more numerous the
wants of land owners, the more extensive the division of labor
and commercial intercourse become, the easier it is for a large
class of the community to obtain support for themselves and
families without cultivating land of their own. (Wages.)
When exchanges through the medium of money become customary,
the chief argument for slavery disappears; and the
strong, rich and able man can, without having recourse to
force, command the labor of other men. Every further advance
in economic culture must necessarily help forward in this
direction. Thus, without the plow, for instance, we should all
be really only so many <hi rend='italic'>glebæ adscripti</hi>. It is due especially to
the ever increasing perfection of tools, machines and operations,
that the slave of antiquity was transformed into the serf
of the middle ages, and afterwards into the day laborer of
modern times.<note place='foot'>This graduation of
slave, serf and workman, has been carried out especially
by <hi rend='italic'>Saint Simon</hi>, Oeuvres, 328 ff.
Even <hi rend='italic'>Proudhon</hi> admits that the condition
of the lower classes is better now than formerly. (Contradictions
économiques, ch. X, 2.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>,
Cours, I. Leçons 1 and 2,
where he shows that our productive power has increased during the last four
or five centuries in the production of iron in the proportion of 1 to from
25 to 30; in the preparation of flour since the time of Homer in the
proportion of 1:144; in the production of cotton during the last 70 years in
the proportion of 1:320. <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi> predicted,
long ago, that <q>when the shuttle would move of itself, and plectra of
themselves strike the lyre, we should need no more slaves.</q> Polit.,
2, 5. Every step of true progress brings us nearer the fulfillment of
the prophecy.</note> It is more particularly to be remarked, that
machines, since 1750, <q>first made the constitutional liberty of
many, instead of the feudal freedom of a few, possible.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle.</hi>)
</p>

</div>

<pb n='216'/><anchor id='Pg216'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXI. Disadvantages Of Slavery.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXI.'/>
<anchor id="Section_71"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXI.</head>
<head>Disadvantages Of Slavery.</head>

<p>
Slavery promotes the division of labor only in the very
beginning. The more dependent the slave is, the worse he
works. Whatever he spoils or allows to go to waste injures
only his master. Hence it is that slave-husbandry is only one
degree removed from what the Germans call <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Raubbau</foreign>, and
which means, as nearly as we can translate it, the most
thoughtless and wasteful management possible.<note place='foot'>The
North American planters employed coarse tools rather than fine
ones, mules rather than horses, because their slaves took so little care of
them.</note> Whatever
he consumes is simply so much gain to himself. Industry
and skill are injurious to him, because, if remarkable for these
qualities, his master exacts more work from him and is
more adverse to setting him at liberty. Instead of the numberless
incentives of the free workman: care for the future,
for his family, honor and comfort, the slave is generally
moved by one&mdash;the fear of ill-treatment, and to this he gradually
becomes insensible.<note place='foot'>It can never obtain as much
labor from the slave, as the fear of losing his situation and
of not being able to obtain another, will from the free workman.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hume.</hi>) <hi rend='italic'>Marlo</hi>,
Weltœkonomie, 1848, I, 2, 38, grants this to be true only where
all the forces of nature are appropriated by occupation, and the number
of workmen is greater than the want of workmen.</note> The division of labor demanded
by manufactures, and which is to be found for the most part
only where each person is at liberty to choose his own avocation,
is scarcely supposable where slavery, in the strict sense
of the word, prevails. The same is true of the spirit of invention
and improvement.<note place='foot'>Even in Brazil, only free men are,
as a rule, employed as sugar refiners, distillers, teamsters etc.
(<hi rend='italic'>Koster</hi>, Travels in Brazil, 1816, 362.)
<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Russland unter Alexander I, Heft, 23, p.
255, cites the opinion of an eminent Russian manufacturer, that it would
first be necessary to liberate the serf factory-hands. Masters have
generally given up employing their own serfs in manufactures, allowed
them to seek work for themselves, and only required them to pay them
a species of tax. When this plan was adopted, it was found that they worked
much better, (<hi rend='italic'>v. Haxthausen</hi>, Studien I, 61,
116.) It was a consequence of slavery that, in antiquity, the very wealthy
purchased so little: <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>omnia domi
nascuntur</foreign>! (<hi rend='italic'>Petron.</hi>, 38.)</note>
And even where the milder <hi rend='italic'>glebæ
<pb n='217'/><anchor id='Pg217'/>
adscriptio</hi> obtains, the division of labor is much hindered.
Hence, competent judges all agree on the badness of slave
labor;<note place='foot'>Thus <hi rend='italic'>Homer</hi>, Od.
XVII, 322, in whose time even there were day laborers, θῆτες or
ἔριθοι. (Od. IV, 644; X, 85; XI, 490; XIV, 102. <hi rend='italic'>Hesiod</hi>, Opera,
602.) And <hi rend='italic'>Varro</hi>, De Re rust. I, 17, advises
that difficult labor should be performed rather by day laborers.
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Coli rura ab ergastulis pessimum est et
quidquid agitur a desperantibus.</foreign> <hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>,
H. N. XVIII, 7. <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Omne genus agri
tolerabilius sub liberis colonis, quam sub villicis.</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>Columetta</hi>, De Re rust I, 7.)
It has been estimated, that, in the West Indies, a negro slave performed only
one-third of the work performed by an Englishman in his own country.
(<hi rend='italic'>B. Edwards</hi>, History of the British West Indies,
II, 131.) During the one afternoon, in every week, in which the negroes
were allowed to work on their own account, they accomplished as much as on other
entire days. Edinburgh R. IV, 842. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Bentham</hi>, Traité de
Législation I, 319. <hi rend='italic'>Ch. Comte</hi>, Traité de Législation, 1827,
Livre V.; <hi rend='italic'>Cairnes</hi>, The Slave-Power, its Character, Career and
probable Designs, 1862; <hi rend='italic'>Olmsted</hi>, Journeys and Explorations in
the Cotton Kingdom, 1861.</note> which, as for instance in the United States, was used
only where the slaves were crowded together in large numbers
and could therefore be easily superintended. And not
only are the slaves themselves indolent, but their masters as
well; more particularly in slave countries where all labor is
considered disgraceful. What must be the national husbandry
of a people, one half of whom refuse to do anything that is right
and proper, through malice, and the other half through pride!
As soon as, on account of increased population and consequent
increased consumption, this enormous waste of force
can be endured no longer, free workmen become more profitable,
not only to themselves and to the whole community, but
to the greater number of the individuals who compose it.<note place='foot'>While
the older tyrants had prohibited idleness, Draco and Solon even
under pain of degradation (see places in <hi rend='italic'>Büchsenschütz</hi>,
Besitz und Erwerb, 260). <hi rend='italic'>Socrates</hi> called the ἅργια the
sister of Freedom (Aelian, V.H.X, 14), and the σκολή the most beautiful of
all professions.</note>
On the Bernstoff estates the quantity of rye harvested before
<pb n='218'/><anchor id='Pg218'/>
and after emancipation was as 3:8-⅓; of barley-corn as 4:9-⅓;
of oat-grain as 2-⅔:8.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>B. Franklin</hi>,
Observations concerning the Peopling of New Countries etc., 1751.</note>
</p>

<p>
The owners of serfs, especially, are apt to be very wasteful
of their labor, because they imagine that they obtain it gratis.
Tucker has made a curious calculation tending to show that
when civilization reaches a certain point, the master's self-interest
leads to emancipation. In Russia, where there are
seventy-five persons to the English square mile, it seemed to
him that serfdom was still a good economic speculation. In
western Europe, where there were one hundred and ten persons
to the square mile, freedom, in all relations of master and
servant, he considered more advantageous to all parties. Emancipation
began in England in the fourteenth century, when that
country had a population of forty to the square mile, and was
completed in the seventeenth, when the population was ninety-two
to the square mile.<note place='foot'>Monument erected to
<hi rend='italic'>Bernstorff</hi> by his peasants, 8, 15. The
<hi rend='italic'>Zàmoiski</hi> estates yielded, 17 years after emancipation, three
times as much as they did when serfdom prevailed. <hi rend='italic'>Coxe</hi>,
Travels in Poland, I, 22. The transformation of the serfs into hereditary farmers
cost <hi rend='italic'>Count Bernstorff</hi> 100,000 thalers;
but the revenue derived from his lands increased in consequence, in twenty-four
years, from 3,000 to 27,000 thalers. An English mower can mow a
field two and three times as great as a Russian mower in a given time. If
the former receives daily wages equivalent to seventy pounds of wheat, and
the latter to only twelve, the Englishman's labor is still the cheaper; for he
turns out 100 pounds of hay while the latter turns out only eight.
<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, 43 seq. But the hiring out of serfs in the large cities of
Russia yielded less to their masters than in the interior. <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>,
Handbuch, II, 286.</note> Tucker concludes, that the turning
point comes, when the population is relatively to the number
of square miles as 66:1.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Tucker</hi>, Progress
of the United States, 1843, pp. 111 ff. We need not call
attention to the inaccuracy of these figures, nor remark how little serviceable
for our present purpose an average obtained from the density of population
in different parts of Russia, where such densities are themselves so very
different, would be.</note> Such a calculation cannot, of course,
be universally true. The free workman can usually command
a much larger portion of the sum total of economic profits
<pb n='219'/><anchor id='Pg219'/>
than can the slave or serf, who must be satisfied with the minimum
necessary to support life.<note place='foot'>The Spartans seemed to
have counted on an adult free man for twice as much coarse food
as a bondsman. (<hi rend='italic'>Thucyd.</hi>, VI, 16.)</note>
Hence, free labor is more
profitable to masters only when production in general is so
much enhanced thereby that a greater quantity of goods falls
to their share also. But this will always be the case where
workmen are capable of development.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Stewart</hi>,
Principles, I, 7, in accordance with historical data, says, that
the peasantry in our days work for other people, because they have wants
which can be satisfied only in this way; because <q>they are slaves of their
own wants.</q> The unquestionable superiority of free to slave labor, in point
of economy, has been dwelt upon especially by <hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Sur
la Formation et la Distribution, § 28, and by <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>,
Wealth of Nations, I, 8, III, 2. But see <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité,
I, ch. 19, and <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, II, 184. When
<hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>, Discourses, No. 11, Populousness of ancient Nations,
demonstrates the greater cost of slavery from the fact that the master of slaves
must either breed or buy them, he forgets that in the case of free workmen he is obliged
to provide also for the support of the workman's children. Only, the slaveholder
has, indeed, to advance the whole at once.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXII. Effect Of An Advance In Civilization On
Slavery.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXII.</head>
<head>Effect Of An Advance In Civilization On Slavery.</head>

<p>
At the same time, the same degree of servitude becomes
more and more oppressive to the bondman as civilization advances.
The greater his intellectual progress, the more does
he feel the want of liberty, and the more keenly he experiences
the degradation of his condition. The development of luxury
digs a gulf between master and servant which grows wider
every day. (§ 227 ff.) As commerce extends, it becomes
more profitable for the master to exact excessive work from
his slave. In the West Indies, it was a problem which every
slaveholder solved for himself, whether, by immoderately increased
production, which cost the lives of many slaves, the
gain in sugar was greater than the loss occasioned by the
<pb n='220'/><anchor id='Pg220'/>
consequent death of the negroes.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>,
Cuba, I, 177. <hi rend='italic'>Ashworth</hi>, Tour in the U.S. Cuba and Canada,
1861. The slaves in Louisiana were so overworked that they lived, on an
average, scarcely seven years. Edinburg Rev., LXXXIII, 73. Even the
Stoics were not agreed, whether it was right, in case of shipwreck, to sacrifice
a cheap slave in order to save a valuable horse. (<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>,
de Off. III, 23.) Whether the self-interest of masters is an inducement to the mild
treatment of their slaves depends on the price for which fresh slaves may be obtained.
This is a strong reason why a high degree of civilization, where there are
not counteracting influences, must make slavery less endurable. The more
valuable slaves are, the worse is their condition. In the unfertile Bahamas,
the price was £21; in Demarara, £86. In the former place they were required
to do little work and were well fed and well clothed. Hence their
numbers have increased there, while in Demarara they have decreased.
(Edinburgh Rev., XLVI, 496, 180.)</note> When, with the advance of
civilization, the state guarantees to all more certain protection
of their rights than they enjoyed in a less advanced stage of
social improvement, the last check on masters, the fear of the
vengeance of their slaves, is removed.<note place='foot'>Proverb:
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>quot servi totidem hostes.</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>Macrob.</hi>, Sat. I, 11, 13.)</note> Demoralization naturally
increases in the same proportion; and that of the master
as well as that of his servants.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Jefferson</hi>,
Notes on Virginia, 212. The chastity of both parties especially
suffers. The <hi rend='italic'>leno</hi> of ancient comedy was a slave trader!
Compare L. 27, Digest, V, 3. In the English negro colonies, it was not unusual for the
guests of the planters, even in the best families, on retiring, to ask the
accompanying servant for a girl, with as little concern as they would in England
for a light. (Negro Slavery, or a Creed of ... that state of Society as
it exists in the United States and in the Colonies of the West Indies, London,
1823, 53.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXIII. The Same Subject Continued.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXIII.</head>
<head>The Same Subject Continued.</head>

<p>
This explains why it is that, in all countries, the power of
the state, in a period of transition towards a higher civilization,
has endeavored to render slavery milder. Great credit is
due the Church in this regard. It soon extinguished slavery
entirely in Scandinavia,<note place='foot'>Even the law of Upland forbade the
sale of Christians. The children of a slave and of a free person were born free.
Emancipation was considered a Christian act, to be performed for <q>the
salvation of one's soul.</q> Voluntary slavery was prohibited in 1266, and Magnus
Erichson forbade slavery generally from the year 1335. See
<hi rend='italic'>Geijer</hi>, Geschichte von Schweden, pp. 157, 185, 273.
<hi rend='italic'>Estrup</hi>, in <hi rend='italic'>Falcks</hi> N. Staatsburg Magazin,
1837, 179, ff.</note> and in portions of Europe it abolished
at least the sale of prisoners to foreign countries.<note place='foot'>L. Alam, 137,
1. L. Fris., 17, 5. Decree of 960 concerning the abolition
of the trade in Christian slaves between Germany, Italy and the Byzantine
Empire. <hi rend='italic'>Tafel und Thomas</hi>, Urkunden der Staats-und Handelsgeschichte
von Venedig, I, 18 ff.</note> The
<pb n='221'/><anchor id='Pg221'/>
<hi rend='italic'>Concilium Agatheuse</hi>, in the year 506, decreed that serfs should
not be killed by their masters at pleasure,<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Tacit</hi>. Germ. 25. In the Legg. Walliæ 206 (Wolton) we read:
<q><foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Hero eadem potestas in servum suum ac
in jumentum.</foreign></q></note> but that they should
be brought before a tribunal of justice. (The manorial tribunals
of more recent times.) Moreover, the numberless holidays
of the church operated greatly in favor of the bondmen.
Pope Alexander III. recommended their gradual emancipation.<note place='foot'>The
council of London in 1102 forbade men to be sold like beasts. (Concil.,
ed. Venet. 1730, XII, 1100, No. 27.) <hi rend='italic'>Guérard</hi>, Polyptiques
d'Irminon, Prolegg., 220, describes a pedagogical model emancipation by the Church of
its own serfs. On the whole, the church contributed more towards the emancipation
of the serfs of others than of its own. See ch. 39, C. XII, qu. 2; c.
3,4; De Rebus eccl.</note>
One of the principal steps in the way of progress was
made when they could no longer be sold singly, but only with
the village or on the estate to which they belonged.<note place='foot'>In Flanders
since the end of the twelfth century. <hi rend='italic'>Warnkönig</hi>, Flandrische
Staats und Rechtsgeschichte (I, 244).</note> The
feudal aristocracy improved the condition of the bondmen by
reducing a great number of freemen to their level.<note place='foot'>In what
relates to Germany, compare <hi rend='italic'>Sugenheim</hi>, Geschichte der Aufhebung
der Leibeigenschaft in Europa, 1861, p. 350 ff. The destruction of the old
manorial system (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Hofwesen</foreign>)
in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, was often unfavorable to bondmen and
favorable to serfs. <hi rend='italic'>Maurer</hi>, Gesch. der
Frohnhöfe, II, 92. In Poland, where all were originally equal land-owners,
many sank gradually through poverty to the condition of the so-called
<hi rend='italic'>kinetes</hi>, who, although personally free, were not
very far removed from slaves. Beginning with the thirteenth century, a
great number of immunities, after the model of those accorded in Germany, were
granted, by means of which they lost, for the most part, their direct subjection
to the emperor and the empire alone. This was soon followed as a consequence by
their personal oppression. (<hi rend='italic'>Röpell</hi>, Geschichte von Polen, I,
p. 308 seq., and p. 570 seq.) In Bohemia, the old form of serfdom had so far
disappeared in the fourteenth century, that it might be said it was known only to
history. But during the reign of the weak king, Ladislaus II, a new species of
serfdom came into vogue, the result of the preponderance of the aristocratic element.
<hi rend='italic'>Palacky</hi>, Gesch. von Böhmen, II, p. 33 seq.; III, 31 seq.
Aristocratic Denmark, before the peasant war of 1255-1258, subjected the free
peasantry who had been leaseholders for a term of years to unlimited socage duty.
Waldemar III, reduced to the same kind of service the land-owning peasantry, which
especially from the date of Margaret's reign, developed into a species of
<hi rend='italic'>glebæ adscriptio</hi>. From the sixteenth century, when the royal
power almost disappeared, these public privileges were abandoned to the nobility to
such an extent that, in 1650, there were scarcely 5,000 free peasants.
<hi rend='italic'>Dahlmann</hi>, III, p. 73 seq. However the severity of
<hi rend='italic'>traeldom</hi> made way in the fourteenth century for the
<hi rend='italic'>vornedskap</hi> (modified bondage), a milder species of vassalage.
See <hi rend='italic'>Kolderup Rosenvinge</hi>, Grundriss der dänischen
Rechtsgeschichte, § 94.</note> This
<pb n='222'/><anchor id='Pg222'/>
could not be effected without a real amelioration of slavery;
and, later, when the feudal aristocracy declined, the older serfs
were, with those who had been formerly free, raised from their
abject condition. The sense of chivalry would not permit a
lord to be served by a bondman. The old adage <q>the serf
lives to serve and serves to live,</q> by degrees, lost its force.
Serfs were required to perform certain tasks on the lands of
their master and to pay him a certain quantity of the produce
of their own. Heriots (<hi rend='italic'>mortuarium</hi>), which became usual
from the 8th century (<hi rend='italic'>J. Grimm</hi>), may be considered evidence
that even bondmen were permitted to acquire and hold
property in their own right. Thus was one of the chief disadvantages
of slavery, in an economic sense, removed.<note place='foot'>The French expression
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>mainmorte</foreign> comes originally
from the deprivation of the right of inheritance. In Beaumanoir's time, 1283, it was
customary, after a number of serfs had lived together for a year and a day, for their
chattels movable to become the common property of the community.
(<hi rend='italic'>Warnkönig</hi>, Französische Rechtsgeschichte, II, 157.)</note> It
may be affirmed, as characteristic of the aristocracy of feudal
times, that they treated those, who like the serfs were entirely
at their mercy, with much more consideration than those who
were free, and, although dependent on them, had certain rights
guaranteed by contract. The absolute monarchy found in
<pb n='223'/><anchor id='Pg223'/>
nearly all nations, at the opening of modern times, was forced
by its struggle with the mediæval aristocracy to favor the
emancipation of the serfs and of the lower classes. Even in
Russia, Iwan III. (1462-1505) seems to have restored to the
peasantry the right of migration, of which they had been deprived
by the invasion of the Mongols, nor did they lose it
again until the great troubles at the beginning of the seventeenth
century, which gave the ruling power to the nobility.<note place='foot'>In France,
Louis X. made it a fiscal speculation to sell serfs their liberty
in whole districts, even against their will. His edict, Ordonnances, I, 583,
recognizes that all men are by nature free, and that France is not without
reason called the land of the Franks etc. Even in 1298, Philip IV. had exchanged
the serfdom to the crown of several provinces for a land duty. The
last ruler of Dauphiny gave all the serfs of the crown their liberty gratis, in
1394. (<hi rend='italic'>Sugenheim</hi>, p. 130.) When the so-called
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>coutumes</foreign> were written, there
were only nine provincees in which by local law serfdom was permitted.
The defeat of the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>jacquerie</foreign>
injured the cause of emancipation in France in the same way that the suppression of
the war of the peasants did in Germany. About 1779, <hi rend='italic'>mainmorte</hi>
was abolished in all lands of the crown, and its proof made almost impossible in
all others. (<hi rend='italic'>Warnkönig</hi>, II, 151 seq.) Yet it is said that there
were 150,000 <hi rend='italic'>serfs de corps</hi> in France in 1789.
(<hi rend='italic'>Cassagnac</hi>, Causes de la Revolution, III, 11.) Koloman, who died
in 1114, forbade the slave trade in Hungary, and labored to raise all Christian slaves
to <hi rend='italic'>conditionarii</hi> (renters). But the right of migration was
abolished in 1351. King Sigismund, and still more, Matthias Corvinus, restored it, after
the suppression of the war of the peasants, but in 1514 it was again lost until
1586. Further progress was arrested until the Urbarium of Maria Theresa.</note>
</p>

<p>
Where civilization has reached its highest development, the
irresistible power of public opinion, governed by the ideas of
the universal brotherhood of man and of democratic equality,
causes the abolition of all irredeemable and of all hereditary
relations of servitude.<note place='foot'>In Italy, Frederick II. liberated all the
serfs of the crown. (Constitutt. Regni Sicil., 164.) A model instance of emancipation at
Bologna in 1256. The serfs of the state were simply set at liberty; the freedom of those
of private persons was purchased with the money of the state, and a small
corn-tithe laid on the emancipated as a compensation for the expense incurred
in their behalf. In the future, there was not to be a bondman on
Bologna territory. The motives which led to this measure are a strange
admixture of Christianity and Democracy. (<hi rend='italic'>Muzzi</hi>, Annali di Bologna,
1840, I, 479.) Italy, at the end of the fourteenth century, was entirely free
from Christian serfdom. (<hi rend='italic'>Muratori</hi>, Antt. Ital., I, 798.) In the
canton of Berne, Switzerland, slavery was gradually abolished, the process commencing
about the beginning of the fifteenth century. It continued, however,
in the case of ordinary masters until 1798. <hi rend='italic'>Sugenheim</hi>, p. 530
seq. In England, Alfred the Great's efforts towards the gradual abolition of slavery
(<hi rend='italic'>Wilkins</hi>, Leges, 29) remained without result. The steps taken by
William I, towards a much narrower end, however, seem to have been more successful.
(Leges Will. Conq., 225, 229; <hi rend='italic'>Turner</hi>, Hist. of England, I, 135.)
From the time of the Norman conquest, prisoners of war ceased to recruit the
ranks of slavery. Under Henry III and Edward I, socage tenants became
more and more frequent; but, before long, their duties became less onerous,
and might be discharged by others hired for the purpose, instead of by themselves.
The first remarkable vestige of a class working for wages is met
with in the law of 1351, which may be considered an effort made by the
nobility to oppose the tendencies in favor of emancipation, which were a
consequence of the development of cities. (<hi rend='italic'>Eden</hi>, State of the
Poor, I, 7, 12, 30, 41,) <hi rend='italic'>Infra</hi>, § 175. Although the peasant war
under Wat Tyler and Straw, who wished to abolish servitude at a blow, failed of its
object, we find that there were a great many instances of emancipation by individuals in
the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries when death or sickness overtook them, in
which they declared the moral unfitness of slavery. (<hi rend='italic'>Wycliffe</hi>:
<q>When Adam dalve and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?</q>) Elizabeth liberated
the last serfs of the crown. Compare 12 Charles II, ch. 24, 1660.
Emancipation in the lowlands of Scotland was completed in 1574.
(<hi rend='italic'>Tytler</hi>, Hist. of Scotland, II, 260.)</note><note
place='foot'>Modern Emancipation Laws: in Prussia, 1719, 1807, 1819; Lausitz; 1820,
Westphalia; in Austria, 1781 (Bohemia and Moravia), 1782 (other German
countries and Galicia); 1785 (Hungaria); Schleswig-Holstein, 1804, after
many of the landed gentry had voluntarily emancipated their own serfs; in
Bavaria, in 1808; in the kingdom of Westphalia, in 1808; in Hessen-Darmstadt,
in 1811; in Württemberg, in 1817; in Baden, in 1783, 1820 in newly
acquired countries; in Mecklenburg, in 1820; in the kingdom of Saxony, in
1832; in Hanover, in 1833. The law of 1702, abolishing serfdom in Denmark,
was evaded until 1788, and in part, even until 1800 by the
<hi rend='italic'>Schollband</hi> (clod-bond) introduced in its stead. The only
Christian people in Europe, who, until recently, kept serfs, was the Russian. The serfs
of Russia, in 1834, numbered 22,000,000, i.e., about 40 per cent. of the entire
population. In the meantime, the law of February 19, 1861, passed after four years of
preparation, fixed the date of emancipation at the beginning of the year 1863.
Slavery has been abolished in the United States since January 1, 1863; first of all in
all portions of the country engaged in rebellion.</note><note place='foot'>There is a
very interesting discussion in the Journ. des Economistes for
June 1863, of the question whether the owners of serfs are entitled to compensation
on their emancipation, by <hi rend='italic'>Laboulaye</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Lavergne</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Garnier</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Simon</hi> and others. In the United
States it would have required $2,000,000,000
to fully compensate the slave-holders for depriving them of their slaves.
(Quart. R., Jan., 1874, 142.) Compare my view, <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>,
Nationalökonomi des Ackerbaues, § 124.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='224'/><anchor id='Pg224'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXIV. The Same Subject Continued.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXIV.</head>
<head>The Same Subject Continued.</head>

<p>
It cannot be doubted, that an entirely direct leap from complete
servitude to complete freedom may be attended by many
<pb n='225'/><anchor id='Pg225'/>
evils. No man is <q>born free,</q><note place='foot'>Leave a new-born child to its
<q>natural freedom</q> for twenty-four hours, and it will in all probability be
dead at the end of the time!</note> but only with a faculty for
freedom; but this faculty must be developed. The knowledge
and respect for law, and the self-control, which are the
conditions and limits of freedom, are never acquired without
labor, seldom without the making of grave mistakes, and never
except through the practice of them. As a rule, both parties,
masters as well as servants, would like to get rid immediately
of all the inconveniences of the former condition and yet continue
to enjoy its advantages. The servant, for instance, will
now yield no more the specific obedience of former times, but
demands still specific mildness from the land-owner, or loaner
of capital, his former master. It is inevitable that there should
be complaints on both sides.<note place='foot'>Compare Edinburgh Review, LXXXIII,
64 ff., April, 1851, 333. <hi rend='italic'>Klein's</hi>
Annalen XXV, 70, ff. Even in the fifth book of Moses, 15, 13, ff., we see
that experience had taken into consideration that a freed serf without capital
or landed property might very readily be in a worse condition than he was
before. In the United States, the anticipation that the emancipated negroes
might diminish in numbers has not been realized. The census of 1870
showed a negro population of 4,880,000, nearly ten per cent. more than in
1860. The increase of the number of churches, schools and savings banks
also bears testimony to the prosperity of the negro.
(<hi rend='italic'>R. Somers</hi>, The Southern States since the War, 1871.)</note>
But in the higher stages of economic
culture, the relation of paternal protection and childlike
<pb n='226'/><anchor id='Pg226'/>
obedience between the different classes of the people, which,
even in medieval times, never obtained in all its purity, is certainly
unrecallable. Hence it is, that all hope of a better condition
of things is based only on this, that the lower classes
may as soon as possible attain to true
independence.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>, Principles, 10, ch.
7.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXV. The Same Subject Continued.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXV.</head>
<head>The Same Subject Continued.</head>

<p>
Even in antiquity, the principal nations of the world could
not keep the humanizing influence of civilization from making
itself felt on their slaves. And if they did not go so far
as to bring about the total abolition of slavery, it is unhesitatingly
to be attributed to their religious inferiority.<note place='foot'>As to the
Jews, see <hi rend='italic'>Ewald</hi>, Geschichte von Israel, I 2, p. 198. In general,
see <hi rend='italic'>H. Wallon</hi>, Hist, de l'Esclavage dans l'Antiquité, II,
1847.</note> In
Athens, during the Peloponnesian war, it was almost impossible
to distinguish the slaves from the poorer freemen by their
looks or dress. Their treatment was mild in proportion as
desertion was easier by reason of the smallness of the state or
the frequency of war. It was forbidden to beat them; and only a court of justice could
punish them with death.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Thucyd.</hi>
IV, 27; <hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi> De Re. rep. Art. I, 10 ff.,
<hi rend='italic'>Aristoph.</hi> Nubes, 6; <hi rend='italic'>Antiph.</hi>
De Caede Herod, 727. In the <q>Frogs</q> of Aristophanes, the relation
between the slave Xanthias and his master is eloquent testimony to the
good treatment he received. Slaves enjoyed great freedom of speech.
(<hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi> Phil. III, iii.) Concerning masters accused
of cruelty, see <hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi> Mid. 529, 7. Athen. VI, 266.
The slave who had been ill-treated might seek refuge in a temple, after which
his master was compelled to sell him. (<hi rend='italic'>Schol. Aristoph.</hi>
Equitt. 1309. <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Thes. 36.)</note> Emancipation,
in individual cases, was very frequent, and the names
of Agoratos and of the law-reviser Nicomachos show how
great a part an emancipated slave might play in the nation.<note place='foot'>Slaves
might purchase their own freedom with their <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>peculium</foreign>. See Petit. Legg., Art. II, 179.
There were many who lived entirely on their own account,
paying a certain duty or tax to their masters, and who were well able
to make savings. <hi rend='italic'>R. F. Hermann</hi>, Privatalterthümer, § 13,
9, 58, 11 ff. See the instance in <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, De Rep. VI, 495,
where a slave who had grown wealthy asks the daughter of his former master in
marriage. Moreover, there was a general indisposition to hold Greeks as slaves.
(<hi rend='italic'>Philostr.</hi> Apoll. VIII, 7, 12.) The case cited in
<hi rend='italic'>Demosth</hi>. adv. Nicostr. 1249 ff., is all the stronger on this
account.</note>
<pb n='227'/><anchor id='Pg227'/>
The helot system of the Lacedemonians preserved much
longer a great deal more of medieval barbarism; but even
here, we may infer from the frequent uprisings and emancipations
of the helots, from their services in war etc., that their
lot was made less hard than it had been.<note place='foot'>Under Cleomenes,
many purchased their freedom with their own means.
<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Cleom. 23. At an earlier period, men
like Lysandros, Gylippos, Kallikratidos had belonged to a class composed of
the children of slaves brought up as citizens.</note>
</p>

<p>
Among the Romans, with whom war and conquest were
so long considered<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, pro
Muræna, IX, 22.</note> the principal means of acquisition, slavery
was relatively very hard.<note place='foot'>Think of the subterranean
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>ergastula</foreign>, the fettered
door-keepers and the gladiatorial exhibitions.</note> But, later, there came to be
several different grades of slavery (<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>servi
ordinarii</foreign> and <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>mediastini</foreign>
etc.); and in slavery, every gradation denotes some amelioration
of condition.<note place='foot'>Even from the time of <hi rend='italic'>Plautus</hi>,
the <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>servi honestiores</foreign> were
wont to keep <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>vicarios</foreign>,
or subordinate slaves. <hi rend='italic'>Plaut.</hi> Asin. I, 4,
<hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi> De Tranq. Anim. 8. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>,
Parad. V, 2. Of the slaves of the state, the public scribes were sometimes found in
excellent circumstances.</note> The slave obtained the right to possess
resources of his own (<foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>peculium</foreign>).<note place='foot'>The peculium
was fully developed in the time of Plautus and Terence. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Terent.</hi>, Phorm. I, 1. It was customary to promise slaves their
freedom as soon as they had acquired a certain <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>peculium</foreign>. (<hi rend='italic'>Dionys. Hal.</hi>,
Antt. Rom., IV, 24. <hi rend='italic'>Tac.</hi>, Ann., XIV, 42.) Humane masters permitted
their slaves to dispose freely of their <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>peculium</foreign> by will. (<hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>,
Ep., VIII, 16.) There were many of the Romans who gave their slaves a fixed salary, from
which they could make savings. (<hi rend='italic'>Senec.</hi>, Epist., 80, 7.)
Shepherds raised some sheep for themselves alone. (<hi rend='italic'>Plaut.</hi>,
Asin., III, 1, 36; <hi rend='italic'>Varro</hi>, R. R., I, 17, 7.) Premiums were
offered for certain products (<hi rend='italic'>Athen.</hi>, VI, 274 d),
and there were cases even in which businesses were farmed out to slaves.
(Corp. Inscr. Gr., No. 4,713 f.) The <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>servi
publici</foreign> had the right to dispose of the half of what they owned, by will.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ulpian</hi>, XX, 16.) Contracts of loan were sometimes made between
master and slave. (<hi rend='italic'>Plut.</hi>, Cato, I, 21, L., 49,
§ 2, Digest, XV, 1.)</note> In addition to this,
<pb n='228'/><anchor id='Pg228'/>
emancipation became much more frequent in the later republic;
so much so, that Augustus considered it necessary to pass
laws taxing frivolous emancipation. (<hi rend='italic'>L. Aelia Sentia</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>Furia</hi>.)<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Tacit.</hi>,
Ann., XIII, 26 seq. During the time from 356 to 211
A.C., it seems that there were, on an average, 1,380 slaves emancipated
yearly. (<hi rend='italic'>Dureau de la Malle</hi>, Economie polit. des Romains,
I, 290 ff.)</note> Where men like Terence, Roscius, Tiro, Phædrus
and the father of Horace rose from the condition of slavery, the treatment
of slaves cannot have been entirely brutalizing.<note place='foot'>Concerning
the highly educated slaves of Atticus, of the like of whom
the Greeks had formerly few examples, see <hi rend='italic'>Drumann</hi>,
Geschichte Roms., V, 66. The high prices, 100,000, and even 200,000 sesterces, paid
for slaves, suppose a very high degree of education. (<hi rend='italic'>Martial</hi>,
I, 59; III, 62; XI, 70; <hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi>, Ep., 27.) But even
<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi> was ashamed of his affliction over the
death of an exceptionally clever slave. (Ad. Att., I, 12.)</note>
Under the emperors who oppressed the free citizens,
legislation was directed more than ever towards the protection
of the slaves.<note place='foot'>At an earlier period, even the censor
had punished cruel masters. But most of what was done to prevent the arbitrary
condemnation to death of slaves, their castration etc., and to give them rights
against their masters for libidinous acts towards them, for cruelty and insufficient
support, or the furnishing them with bad food, was done after the time of Hadrian.
(Compare <hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi>, de Benef., III, 22; de Ira, III, 40,
<hi rend='italic'>Sueton.</hi>, Claud, 25, Dom., 7; <hi rend='italic'>Spartian.</hi>,
Hadr., 18; <hi rend='italic'>Gaius</hi>, I, 53; L., 1, § 2, Digest, I, 6; L., 1,
§ 8, D., I, 12; L., 1, § 2, D., XLVII, 8; L., 1; Cod., IX, 14; Contra, see
<hi rend='italic'>Dio Cass</hi>, I, V, 17.) However, the <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>vitæ necisque potestas</foreign> existed in the time of
Justinian. (<hi rend='italic'>Zimmern</hi>, Geschichte des röm., Privatrechts, I,
2, 661 ff.)</note> Instead of permanent slavery, a condition
of things was introduced and became more general every day,
one in which the bondman might contract a legal marriage,
have property of his own, and in which he was protected
against an arbitrary increase of the quota he had to pay his
master, whether in money or produce, although he still remained
bound to the land. This class was formed not only of
the <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>originarii</foreign>,
or those born into it, but also of a large number of impoverished freemen,
barbarian prisoners of war etc.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Salvian</hi>,
De Gubern. Dei, V, 8. <hi rend='italic'>Theod.</hi>, Cad. V, 4.
<hi rend='italic'>Eumenis</hi>, Paneg Coast. 8, 9. <hi rend='italic'>Trebell</hi>,
Poll. Claud., 9. <hi rend='italic'>Justin.</hi> Cad., XI, 26, 47. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>v. Savigny</hi>, Ueber den romischen Colonat. Berliner Akad.,
1822-23.</note><note place='foot'>The figures given in <hi rend='italic'>Athen.</hi>,
VI, 103, concerning the number of bondmen in Greece are almost incredible. For
Attica alone, the estimates vary between 110,000 (<hi rend='italic'>Letronne</hi>,
in the Mem. de I'Académie des Inscr., 1822, 192, ff.) and 400,000
(<hi rend='italic'>Athen.</hi> 1. c.), while the free men are estimated at from 130,000
to 150,000. In Rome, during the time from the expulsion of the kings until
the destruction of Carthage, the number of the slaves remained about the
same. (<hi rend='italic'>Blair</hi>, State of Slavery among the Romans, 1833, 10,
15.) On the other hand, <hi rend='italic'>Dureau de la Malle</hi> is of opinion,
that in 576 B.C., the number of slaves was to the number of free men as 1 to 25,
and in 225 B.C. (including the metics), as 22 to 27. (Economie polit. des Romains I
270 ff., 296.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Cato</hi>, de Re. rust. I, 3, IV, X, 1 XI;
1, XVII, XVIII, 1. In Germany, the number of bondmen, from the eighth to the tenth
century, was estimated to be at least as great as that of free men.
(<hi rend='italic'>Grimm</hi>, D. Rechtsaltherthümer, 334.) Among the Anglo Saxons,
before the Norman conquest, it was much higher, even three-fourths of the entire
population. (<hi rend='italic'>Turner</hi>, Hist. of the A. S., VIII, 9.) Compare
on the subject of this whole chapter my paper in the Archiv. der polit Œkonomie, N.
F., IV, 30 ff.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='229'/><anchor id='Pg229'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXVI. (Appendix To Chapter IV.) The Domestic Servant
System.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXVI. (Appendix To Chapter IV.)'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXVI. (Appendix To Chapter IV.)</head>
<head>The Domestic Servant System.</head>

<p>
In most countries the servant system developed itself gradually
out of serfdom, or of some condition of tutelage analogous
thereto. This is seen most clearly in the long continuance
of forced service, by which the subjects of the lord of the fee
were compelled to allow their children to remain in the court
of the lord as servants, either without any remuneration whatever,
or for very low wages fixed by long continued custom.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Klöntrupp</hi>, Abhandlung der Lehre vom Zwangsdienste, 1801. Frequently,
the lord had only a right of preference in case the children of the tenant desired
to abandon the parental roof and take service elsewhere.</note>
Here, also, belongs the right of correction, so generally accorded
to masters in former times. In the higher stages of
civilization, the whole relation is wont to be resolved more and
more into freedom of competition; and this process is wont to
take place earliest and most strikingly in the cities. Where
vast numbers of men are brought together, demand and supply
<pb n='230'/><anchor id='Pg230'/>
of services meet most easily. The nearer in the course of
this development the servant system approaches to piece-wages
and day-wages, the shorter does the customary (presumptive)
duration of the contract last,<note place='foot'>In <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith's</hi>
time, in England, the presumption was that a servant
had been hired for a year. (I, 2, 15 ed., Bas.) Frederick the Great's ordinance
of 1769, on this subject, forbade any one to enter into service for a
shorter time than this (II, § 1 ff.), while the Saxon ordinance of 1835, on the
same matter, allowed engagements by the month, in cities. <hi rend='italic'>Darjes</hi>,
Erste Gründe der Cameralwissenschaften, 2d ed. (1768), p. 432, demands that servants
should always hire themselves for at least four or five years, and that
their masters should have, during the whole of this time, the right to enforce
the contract. In North America, however, service by the month has become
customary and general, and no notice of the dissolution of the contract is, as
a rule, required. (Deutsche Vierteljahrsschrift, 1853, II, 191.) In Switzerland,
contracts for service by the week are frequently made even by country servants.
(<hi rend='italic'>Böhmert</hi>, Arbeiterverhh., II, 157.)</note> the more voluntary is
the period of leave-taking by both parties;<note place='foot'>In the
south of England, farm hands were used to change service only at
Michaelmas. The choice of such a date made farmers very dependent on
them, as it fell in harvest time. (<hi rend='italic'>Marshall</hi>, Rural
Economy of the Southern Countries, II, 233.) A similar complaint in Cleves.
(<hi rend='italic'>Schwerz</hi>, Rheinischwestphälische Landw., 21 ff.) In
Jülich, a half year's notice was required, during which time the servant who
had received it, performed his work with disgust, and stirred up his fellow
servants against their master. (<hi rend='italic'>Schwerz</hi>,
II, 87.)</note> the more does the entire relation
tend to be limited to single acts of service agreed upon
in advance (§ <ref target="Section_39">39</ref>), and the more frequently do both
parties endeavor to supply the place of the domestic servants by workmen
who receive wages and live outside of the family.<note place='foot'>The
families of day laborers, to whom the owner of the land gives the
use of a house, small garden, a cow etc., constitute such a transition; and
also, workmen who are fed. In Brandenburg, in 1644, only married persons
or widowers with children were permitted to work as day laborers.
(<hi rend='italic'>Mylius, C. C. March.</hi>, V, 1, 3, 11.)</note> The
extreme of this direction at present is the servant-institutes in
cities, the more movable and more democratic character of
which finds expression in this, that they have extended the
use of personal services to a lower circle of consumers than
could previously have thought of employing them. In English
<pb n='231'/><anchor id='Pg231'/>
agriculture this transition was completed mainly in the
third decade of this century. The change was unquestionably
favorable to the improvement of the art of agriculture, but it
was frequently damaging to the social relation existing between the rich
and the poor in the country.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Wakefield</hi>,
Swing Unmasked, or the Causes of rural Incendiarism, 1831.</note> In Germany, the
sale of the public domains, conscription and <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Landwehr</foreign> duty have operated in this
direction.<note place='foot'>By means of the former, the number of
independent small householders was much increased in
the country. Masters feel indisposed to hire young
men liable to be subjected to military duty, because they may be called away
at the moment their services are most needed. The returning soldier, as a
rule, feels above doing menial service. (<hi rend='italic'>Schwerz</hi>,
passim, I, 191 ff., 236.) On this account, servants' wages in Cleves rose much
higher than those of day laborers. (194.) In Belgium, a farm hand cost, on an average,
400 francs a year; a day laborer, counting 300 working days to the year, only
339 francs. (<hi rend='italic'>Horn</hi>, Statist. Gemälde, 175.) In the
Palatinate, day laborers who receive nothing but their wages cost their masters less
than those who receive only their food; and servants are the dearest of all.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hanssen,</hi> Archiv der Politischen Œkonomie, N. F. X, 243.)
If servants were relatively more poorly paid in 1813 than day laborers
(<hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>, Revision, III, 147), it was because of the at least
temporary retrogression of civilization which every great war causes.</note> Hence
it is, for instance, that in Prussia, the servants, in 1816, were 15.18 per cent. of the
entire male population over 14 years of age, and 17.84 per
cent. of the entire female population over 14 years of age. In
1861, on the other hand, there were only 11.88 and 12.93 per
cent., respectively, while the number of day laborers and workmen,
in the same time, increased from 16.29 per cent. males, and 10.87 per cent.
females, to 20.95 and 16.65 per cent., respectively.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Engel</hi>, Preuss. Statist. Jahrb., II, 261. Services which contribute
to personal convenience are naturally committed much less frequently to independent
day laborers than those which aid in production proper. Hence it
is, that, as civilization advances, house-servants, especially of the female sex,
constitute an ever-increasing portion of the total number of servants. In
Prussia, in 1816, the number of servants who ministered to personal comfort
was only 4.19 per cent. of the total number of servants engaged in industry;
of female servants, it was 13.4 per cent. In 1861, on the other hand, the
percentages were 8.4 and 37.2. In Great Britain, of the total number of
servants over 20 years of age, only 2 per cent. were engaged in personal
services. In 1841, they were 3-½ per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>Meidinger</hi>.) In
France, in 1851, 2.5 per cent. of the whole population were in <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>domesticité</foreign>. (Stat. off.)</note>
In most civilized countries, the grade of society
<pb n='232'/><anchor id='Pg232'/>
from which servants are recruited grows lower and lower as
the spirit of independence extends to the deeper strata of humanity.<note place='foot'>In
England, now more especially, out of farm-hand day laborers: Edinburgh
Rev., April, 1862.</note>
</p>

<p>
The servant class may continue a long time yet to be a
school of development for those of the lower classes, who, ripe
in body, are not intellectually independent; just as the duty
of bearing arms has been a school of improvement for all male
youth. Life-long servants are as seldom to be desired as life-long
soldiers.
</p>

<p>
In most places, the long transition period from complete
bondage to free competition was governed by a police system
of wardship, which was very unfavorable to the servant class.
Such especially was the provision that all young people of the
lower classes, who could not expressly show that they were
employed under the paternal roof or at some trade, should be
compelled to seek some outside or inland work;<note place='foot'>A chief
element in the earlier <q>organization of labor.</q> So, also, in the
Magdeburg Gesindeordnung (service-regulation) of 1789.</note> such also
was the strict prohibition of <q>usurious</q> wage-claims, and
the <q>decoying</q> of servants from their masters.<note place='foot'>Saxon
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Landesordnungen</foreign> of 1482 and
1543. Cod. August. I, 3, 23. The <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Gesindeordnung</foreign> (service regulation) of Frederick
the Great, threatened with the house of correction the receivers, and under certain
circumstances also the givers of wages higher than the fixed rate of wages; but as a
<q>matter of course,</q> the payment of wages less than this was permitted. (V, § 7)
Great care was taken that wages greater than the law allowed should not be
evaded by the payment of <hi rend='italic'>arrha</hi> or payment in produce. The same law
forbade the deprivation of the servant of his right to determine the service
by making of loans to him on long time (II, § 7.) Even <hi rend='italic'>v. Berg</hi>,
Handbuch des deutschen Polizeirechts, calls it a duty of the public authorities charged
with the protection of property and of the public security, to see to it that
there be no lack of good servants, and that the public (as if those who sell
their services were not a part of it) should not be made the victims of exorbitant
demands in the matter of servants' wages. <hi rend='italic'>Jung</hi>, more humane,
demands that the authorities shall protect, especially, the weaker party. (Grundlehre
der Staatswirthschaft, 1792, 700.) In Prussian legislation, the Silesian
rescript of March 13, 1809, is the beginning of the new order of things.
(<hi rend='italic'>Rabe</hi>, Samml. preuss. Gesetze, X, 59 ff.) The
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Obertribunal</foreign>, or high court,
decided, in 1874, that the bringing back of absconding servants by the police,
which the law concerning servants of 1810 provided for, should not be allowed
to occur any more.</note> Besides, a
<pb n='233'/><anchor id='Pg233'/>
great many provisions relating to servants, and based on views
belonging to an older economic condition, were intended to throw obstacles
in the way of farm hands and country servants<note place='foot'>Ordinance of
the elector of Saxony of 1766, prohibiting the inhabitants
of cities to take an apprentice from among the peasantry, unless he had served
at least four years as a farm hand, beginning with his fourteenth year. Similarly,
in Prussia in 1781.</note>
becoming servants in towns; and, on the other hand, to
facilitate the speedy abandonment of service in all cases in
which the servant desired to marry.<note place='foot'>In Berlin, even
before the <q>populationistischen</q> period: <hi rend='italic'>Fidicin</hi>, Histor.
diplom. Beiträge zur Gesch. der Stadt Berlin, I, 101. (From the year
1397.)</note> All these preferences
in favor of one class of contractors, and at the cost of another,
are radically opposed to the modern political spirit. The laws
relating to servants are wont, in our day, to have but one object,
the prevention, by registration with the police, of fraud
and breach of contract, and of all strife and litigation by the
legally formulating of the conditions which are very frequently
tacitly understood.
</p>

<p>
The ideal of the relation of master and servant is attained
when it is considered by both as a part of the life of a Christian
family.<note place='foot'>I Peter, 2, 18 ff.; I Timoth., 6, 12; Ephes.,
6, 5; Philem., 15 ff.</note> Hence, benevolence on the one side and devotedness
on the other, fidelity on both sides, disinterested care for
the present and future interests each of the other <hi rend='italic'>tanquam
sua</hi>; and especially for each other's eternal future. Whether
this state of mutual feeling is best furthered by the patriarchal
system, by a police system, or by free competition, it is scarcely
possible to say. It may, however, be affirmed that it depends
upon a mutual and continued denial of self not easy to attain.
<pb n='234'/><anchor id='Pg234'/>
Where it really prevails, all the advantages of the piece-work
system are obtained in a worthy and organic manner, and
without its atomistic drawbacks.<note place='foot'>In the German colonies
of Mennonites in Russia, every youth serves a
few years in the family of some other peasant. This is considered a sort of
school. Wages are of course very large, and the treatment very mild.
<hi rend='italic'>v. Haxthausen</hi>, Studien, II, 185. Southwestern Germany
where small landed proprietors are many, something very analogous to this
continues. (<hi rend='italic'>v. d. Goltz</hi>, loc. cit., 452.)</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='235'/><anchor id='Pg235'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter V. Community Of Goods And Private Property.
Capital&mdash;Property.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter V.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter V.</head>
<head>Community Of Goods And Private Property.
Capital&mdash;Property.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXVII. Capital.&mdash;Importance Of Private
Property.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXVII.</head>
<head>Capital.&mdash;Importance Of Private Property.</head>

<p>
As human labor can attain its full development, only on the
supposition that personal freedom is allowed to develop to its
full economic importance and dimensions, so capital can develop
its full productive power only on the supposition of the
existence of the freedom of personal property. Who would
save anything, that is, give up present enjoyment, if he were
not certain of future enjoyment?<note place='foot'>For a masterly exposition of
the doctrine that the right of prescription or limitation is related to the
politico-economical necessity of property, see <hi rend='italic'>John Stuart
Mill</hi>, Principles, 3, II, ch. 2, sec. 2.</note> The legitimacy of private
property has, since the time of Locke,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>,
On Civil Government, II, §25-51; and so <hi rend='italic'>L. Mendelssohn</hi>, Jerusalem
(1783), 32; <hi rend='italic'>Thiers</hi>, Du Droit de la Propriété (1849).</note>
been based, by the greater number of political economists, on the right inherent
in every workman, either to consume or to save the product
of his labor. But it should not be forgotten here that, at least
in the higher stages of the economy of a nation, scarcely any
work or saving is possible without the coöperation of society.
And society must be conceived not only as the sum-total of
the now living individuals that compose it, but in its entire
<pb n='236'/><anchor id='Pg236'/>
past, present and future, and also as being led and borne onward
by eternal ideas and wants.<note place='foot'>Modern writers, in their attempt
to find a philosophical basis for the right of property, have taken two principal
directions, the first a juridical, the second a political one. The axiom,
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>res nullius cedit primo
occupanti</foreign> (compare L. 3, Digest, XLI, 1), explains only the smallest part
of the relations of property, and that only because of a very fortuitous
circumstance. According to <hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi> (Leviathan, 24), property has
its origin in the recognition of it by the power of the state, by the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>autorité publique</foreign>, the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>gouvernement</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>Bossuet</hi>, Politique tirée de l'Ecriture, Sainte, L. 3, 4),
or as <hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi> (Esprit des Lois
XXVI., 15) more mildly expresses it, in the laws. The application of this
principle would, on account of the extreme changeableness of the laws of
every state, lead to most extreme insecurity, and to a steady oscillation from
one Utopia to another, from one revolution to another, if it were not, at the
same time, recognized that each one had a just title to the acquisitions he
had made, not because the law, for the time being existing, acknowledged
the right, but because they were the product of his labor and saving. The
theory which bases the right of property on contract cannot be objected to
with as much reason. Thus, <hi rend='italic'>Hugo Grotius</hi>, Jus Belli et
Pacis, II, 2, who even justifies the occupation of things without an owner, on
the supposition of the existence of an implied contract. It is very characteristic of
the English, that in their political language, the words <q>liberty</q> and
<q>property</q> are so frequently found in each other's company. In one of his classic
speeches made by Fox in 1784, he gives a definition of liberty which begins
with the words, <q>It consists in the safe and sacred possession of a man's
property</q> etc. The recent doctrine, not unfrequently to be met with, that
every man has a right to an amount of property corresponding to his wants,
may be used to sanction all kinds of socialistic inferences. An entirely bewildered
and bewildering description is to be found in <hi rend='italic'>Proudhon's</hi> Qu'est ce
que la Propriété, 1848, as the precursor of which <hi rend='italic'>Brissot's</hi>
Recherches philosophiques sur le Droit de Propriété et le Vol, may be considered. In
medieval times, there are always a multitude of other titles to property besides
production and saving. The title which is held in highest esteem for the
time being is always because of this very extreme vis-a-vis of all other
titles, strengthened and made general.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='237'/><anchor id='Pg237'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXVIII. Socialism And Communism.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXVIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXVIII.</head>
<head>Socialism And Communism.</head>

<p>
In opposition to this, the idea of a community of goods has
found favor, especially in times when the four following conditions
met:<note place='foot'>The word socialism brought into use by
<hi rend='italic'>L. Reybaud</hi> is as ambiguous as
the word communism is simple and intelligible. But most socialists agree
that actual <q>society</q> (which is indeed to be distinguished from the state) is,
together with its foundations, the existing relations of property and the
family, entirely wrong. A radical reconstruction, they say, is needed to
remove forever the chief evil of this system, viz.: the glaring difference between
the rich and the poor, the educated and the uneducated. The difference
between the doctrines of the socialists and of Political Economy does
not, by any means, consist in this, that the former concerns itself more with
the welfare of the lower classes, or even that it gives wider scope to economy
in common. But socialism is, indeed, a living or housekeeping in
common (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Gemeinwirthschaft</foreign>),
which goes far beyond the feeling for the common interest
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Gemeinsinn</foreign>). Such economy
in common is always opposed to freedom, and, at its first introduction, contrary to
law. It can guarantee no compensation to those who have suffered from violence or force,
because it leads to a thoughtless and wasteful exhaustion of the nation's resources,
inasmuch as it weakens the incentive to industry and frugality. Political Economy,
on the other hand, recommends an <hi rend='italic'>expropriation</hi> when the incentives
to industry and frugality are thereby strengthened; and the increased resources
thus obtained serve it, as full compensation to those whose property
has been <hi rend='italic'>expropriated</hi>.</note>
</p>

<p>
A. <hi rend='italic'>A well-defined, confrontation of rich and-poor.</hi> So long
as there is a middle class of considerable numbers between
them, the two extremes are kept, by its moral force, from coming
into collision. There is no greater preservative against
envy of the superior classes and contempt for the inferior, than
the gradual and unbroken fading of one class of society into
another. <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Sperate miseri, cavete
felices!</foreign> In such a state of
social organization, we find the utmost and freshest productive
activity at every round of the great ladder. Those at the
bottom are straining every nerve to rise, and those higher up,
<pb n='238'/><anchor id='Pg238'/>
not to fall below. But where the rich and the poor are separated
by an abyss which there is no hope of ever crossing,
how pride on the one side and envy on the other rage! and
especially in the <hi rend='italic'>foci</hi> of industry, the great cities, where the
deepest misery is found side by side with the most brazen-faced
luxury, and where the wretched themselves conscious of
their numbers, mutually excite their own bad passions. It
cannot, unfortunately, be denied, that when a nation has attained
the acme of its development, we find a multitude of
tendencies prevailing to make the rich richer and the poor, at
least relatively poorer, and thus to diminish the numbers of
the middle class from both sides; unless, indeed, remedial influences
are brought to bear and to operate in a contrary
direction.<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Betrachtungen
über Socialismus und Communismus, Berliner Zeitschrift für Geschichtwissenschaft,
1845, III, 422 ff.</note>
</p>

<p>
B. <hi rend='italic'>A high degree of the division of labor</hi>, by which, on the
one hand, the mutual dependence of man on man grows ever
greater, but by which, at the same time, the eye of the uncultured
man becomes less and less able to perceive the connection
existing between merit and reward, or service and remuneration.
Let us betake ourselves in imagination to Crusoe's
island. There, when one man, after the labor of many
months, has hollowed out a tree into a canoe, with no tools
but an animal's tooth, it does not occur to another who, in the
meantime was, it may be, sleeping on his bear-skin, to contest
the right of the former to the fruit of his labor. How different
this from the condition of things where civilization is advanced,
as it is in our day; where the banker, by a single
stroke of his pen, seems to earn a thousand times more than
a day-laborer in a week; where, in the case of those who loan
money on interest, their debtors too frequently forget how
laborious was the process of acquiring the loaned capital by
the possessors, or their predecessors in ownership. More especially,
we have, in times of <q>over-population,</q> whole masses
<pb n='239'/><anchor id='Pg239'/>
of honest men asking not alms, but only work, an opportunity
to earn their bread, and yet on the verge of starvation.<note place='foot'><foreign
lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Vivre en travaillant ou mourir en
combattant</foreign>&mdash;the device on the flags of the mutinous
silk-weavers at Lyons, in 1832.</note>
</p>

<p>
C. <hi rend='italic'>A violent shaking or perplexing of public opinion in its
relation to the feeling of Right, by revolutions</hi>, especially when
they follow rapidly one on the heels of another, and take opposite
directions. On such occasions, both parties have generally
prostituted themselves for the sake of the favor of the masses;
and the latter have become conscious of the changes which the
force of their arms may effect. In this way, it is impossible
that until order is again entirely established, the reins of power
should not be slackened in many ways at the demands of the
multitude. In this way, too, they are stirred up to the making
of pretentious claims which it is afterwards very difficult to
silence. In every long and far-reaching revolution, whether
undertaken in the interest of the crown, the nobility or the
middle classes, we find, side by side with the seed it intended
to sow, the tares of communism sprout up.
</p>

<p>
D. <hi rend='italic'>Pretensions of the lower classes in consequence of a democratic
constitution.</hi> Communism is the logically not inconsistent
exaggeration of the principle of equality. Men who always
hear themselves designated as <q>the sovereign people,</q>
and their welfare as the supreme law of the state, are more
apt than others to feel more keenly the distance which separates
their own misery from the superabundance of others.
And, indeed, to what an extent our physical wants are determined
by our intellectual mould! The Greenlander feels comfortable
in his mud hut, with his oil-jug. An Englishman in
the same condition would despair.<note place='foot'>We are so assured by
<hi rend='italic'>Vauban</hi> (Dime Royale, 34 seq), of the later years
of the reign of Louis XIV, that nearly 1/10 of the French people begged,
that 5/10 could give no alms, because they were themselves on the very brink
of indigence; 3/10 were <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>fort malaisés,
embarassés de dettes et de procès</foreign>; scarcely one per cent. could be said
to be <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>fort à leur aise</foreign>. How
much better off is the present Parisian workman! And yet, at that time, there was not
the least spread of communistic doctrines. It is indeed seldom that completely
down-trodden men react against their wretchedness with great
energy.</note><note place='foot'><q>If my <emph>caprice</emph> be the source of law,
then my <emph>enjoyment</emph> may be the source of the division of the nation's
resources.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Stahl</hi>, Rechtsphilosophie, II, 2, 72.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='240'/><anchor id='Pg240'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXIX. Socialism And Communism. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXIX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_79"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXIX.</head>
<head>Socialism And Communism. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
What has just been said will serve to explain why, in the
following four periods of the world's history, socialistic and
communistic ideas have been most widespread: among the
ancients at the time of the decline of Greece,<note place='foot'>That the socialism
of <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, De Repub., V, was no mere fancy, is proved
by the polemic which <hi rend='italic'>Aristophanes</hi> directs against it in
his Ecclesiazuses. See also <hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>, Polit., II, 2, Schn.
In the contemporary practice of the Greeks, with the increasing democratization of
the state, it became more and more usual for it to bear the expense of the outlay
for the means of subsistence of the great crowd. (See <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>,
Cimo, 10.) Every act of public life was paid for. Citizens were paid for attending
popular meetings three oboli per day, while the pay of the soldiers was six, and
that of the sailors three. (<hi rend='italic'>Thucyd.</hi>, III, 17; VII, 27; VIII,
45.) The pay of the commonest day laborer was from three to four oboli per day.
<hi rend='italic'>Aristophan.</hi>, Eccl., 310, and <hi rend='italic'>Pollux</hi>,
VII, 29. The number of magistrates was very large, in order that as many
as possible might participate in this species of remuneration. Thus, in
Athens, when it had only about 20,000 inhabitants, there were 6,000 judges.
In addition to all this, there were numberless feasts, plays, banquets etc., which
were offered to the people gratis. The wealthy who were compelled to meet
all the expense thus incurred, lived in such a state of terror of the populace,
that they considered their own impoverishment as a species of deliverance.
(<hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi>, Conviv., 4, and <hi rend='italic'>Lysias</hi>,
pro Bonis.) <hi rend='italic'>Isocrates</hi> called it much more dangerous to be
rich than to commit a crime, since in the latter case one might obtain a pardon
or a mild punishment. (De Permut., p. 160.) (<hi rend='italic'>Lysias</hi>,
De Invalido, de sacra Olea, seq.) There is little difference between this
state of things and a semi-community of goods. Only that, indeed, the great
mass of the slaves were excluded from enjoying them. The contrast which
somewhat later distinguished the Cynics from the Cyreno-Epicureans affords
a striking analogy to that which, in our own times, exists between the
pure socialists and the worshipers of mammon after the fashion of Doctor
Ure. Concerning the Utopia of <hi rend='italic'>Iambulos</hi>, see
<hi rend='italic'>Diodor.</hi>, II, 55 ff.</note> and in that
of the degeneration of the Roman Republic;<note place='foot'>Our sources of
information concerning the division of the Roman republic into a moneyed
oligarchy, and the proletariat are very numerous. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § 205. The speeches of the Gracchi (e.g.
<hi rend='italic'>Plut.</hi>, T. Gracchus, 9), and still more the violent discourses
of Catiline's conspiracy (<hi rend='italic'>Sallust</hi>, Cat., 20, 23, 37-39),
remind us very forcibly of the shibboleths of modern socialism.
We very frequently meet with the expression of a longing desire to
return to the most uncivilized and hoary past, when there was no money and
no wealth&mdash;an aspiration which lies at the very foundation of communism.
Thus <hi rend='italic'>Virgil</hi>, Geo., I, 125, ff., <hi rend='italic'>Tibull.</hi>
I, 3, 35, ff. <hi rend='italic'>Propert.</hi> II, 13, III, 5, 11;
<hi rend='italic'>Seneca</hi>, Epist., 90; <hi rend='italic'>Senec.</hi>,
Oct. II, <hi rend='italic'>Hippol.</hi>, II, 2; <hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>,
H. N. XXXII, 3. On the other hand, the practice of supporting the populace at the
expense of great candidates or of the state, was developed to a very great extent. The
masses lived very largely by the sale of their right of suffrage to the highest
bidder. At the election of consuls in the year 54, 500,000 thalers were offered
to the century called on to vote first. (<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, ad Quintum
II, 15; ad. A.H. IV, 15.) Even <hi rend='italic'>Cato</hi> had a part in such
bribery. (<hi rend='italic'>Sueton.</hi>, Caes., 19.) In the social reform of the
younger Gracchus, besides the limitation of large land-ownership, the principal
points were the following: the sale of wheat under the market price, but only to
the inhabitants of Rome itself; the construction of great highways in Italy;
colonization at the expense of the state, and the increase of soldiers' pay.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ritsch</hi>, Gracchen, 392 ff.) The socialistic plans
of Rullus went much further. Were his agrarian laws put in execution, he
would have confiscated very nearly the entire country in the interest of the
poor, and of their demagogues! (<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, De Lege agrar.)
Rome twice experienced a social revolution of the most frightful character, one by which
a great portion of all private goods fell into the hands of the propertyless (soldiers),
who knew nothing of how to turn it to account or to invest it&mdash;under
Sulla, and then under the later Triumviri. (Compare <hi rend='italic'>Appian</hi>,
Bell, civil., V, 5, 22.) Complaints concerning the latter, in
<hi rend='italic'>Horat.</hi>, Epist., I, 2, 49; <hi rend='italic'>Virgil</hi>,
Buc., IX, 28; <hi rend='italic'>Tibull.</hi> I, 1, 19, IV, 1, 182;
<hi rend='italic'>Propert.</hi>, IV, 1, 129. The elder Gracchus had promised
compensation to the last possessors. <hi rend='italic'>Tabulæ novæ</hi> of Cinna,
Catiline, Cælius, Dolebella. Clodius introduced the distribution of wheat, which
according to Cicero pro Sext., 25, ate up almost one-fifth of the public revenues.
About 320,000 persons were, in this way, supported for a long period of time
(<hi rend='italic'>Sueton.</hi>, Caes, 41, <hi rend='italic'>Dio C.</hi>, XLIII,
21; L. LV, 10), but only in such a manner as to keep them from starvation.
(<hi rend='italic'>Sallust</hi>, 268 ed. Bip.) To all this was soon added
distributions of salt, meal and oil, also free baths, numberless public plays,
colossal banqueting, payment of one year's rent etc. <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>Panem et circenses!</foreign> (Juvenal, X, 80 seq.) The
mere distribution of money under Augustus, in which from 200,000 to 320,000 men
participated, cost each time from 2,500,000 to 6,000,000 thalers. (Monum Ancyr., 372
Wolf.) Extraordinary assistance was, by way of preference, accorded to colonies
of the poor. (<hi rend='italic'>Sueton.</hi>, Caes, 42.) Concerning this entire
policy, see <hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, Paneg., 26 ff. Even in Constantinople, at
the time of its foundation, large distributions of bread were made at the expense of
Egypt, although there could scarcely be any real pauperism in that new and
flourishing city. (<hi rend='italic'>Theod.</hi>, Cod., XIII, 4, XIV 16;
<hi rend='italic'>Socrat.</hi>, II, 13.) I can only allude to the plan
proposed by the emperor Gallien by the neo-platonist Plotin, to found a city
in which the ideas of Plato's republic should be carried out. (Porphyr., V,
Plotin., 8.)</note> among the moderns
<pb n='241'/><anchor id='Pg241'/>
in the age of the Reformation,<note place='foot'>During the two centuries of which the
Reformation constituted the middle point, the transition from the peasant system
of agriculture to the large farming system of modern times bore very heavily on the
inferior classes. Such, too, was the operation of the fall in price of the precious
metals. (§ <ref target="Section_140">140</ref>.) The suppression of the many
monasteries caused an increase in the wretchedness of the poor; and the numerous
poor-laws enacted in England, Spain etc., were not sufficient to supply a remedy. The
feeling of the people during this period of tribulation found expression in the War of the
Peasants, in the sect of Anabaptists, in the many reformations and counter-reformations,
in the revolt of the Netherlands, in the conflicts for the crown
in France and England etc. In Italy, the contrast existing between the
moneyed oligarchy and the proletariat had been developed several centuries,
but from the middle of the sixteenth century, it had become much more oppressive
by reason of the universal impoverishment of the country. For an
account of the pantheistic <q>Brethren and Sisters of the Free Spirit,</q> with
their community of goods and of women, see <hi rend='italic'>Ullmann</hi>, Reformatoren
vor der Reformation, II, 18 ff. They were very numerous from the thirteenth
to the fifteenth century in Italy and France, as well as in Germany, and lead
us to the Adamites in the Hussite war. (<hi rend='italic'>Aschbach</hi>, Geschichte K.
Sigismunds, III, 109.) Earlier yet, we have the sect of the Giovannali, who had
their property and women in common, and who, in 1355, had won the third
of Corsica, but who were afterwards suppressed by Genoa and the Church.
(<hi rend='italic'>Lebret</hi>, Geschichte von Italien, VI, 208 ff.) The coarse
socialist, <hi rend='italic'>John Balle</hi>, bears about the same relation to Wycliffe,
that Münzer and Bockholt did to Luther. (<hi rend='italic'>Walsingham</hi>, Hist. Angliæ
in <hi rend='italic'>Camden, Scriptt.</hi>, 275.) Hans
Böheim of Würzburg, 1476, seems to be the direct precursor of Münzer.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ullmann</hi>, I, 421 ff.) It was almost as usual in Luther's time,
as in 1848, or in our day, to hear of the deep demoralization of trade&mdash;the
<hi rend='italic'>Fuggerei</hi> of the Germany of the time&mdash;and of the universal
system of fraud that prevailed. See the citations in <hi rend='italic'>Hagen</hi>,
Deutschland's Verhältnisse im Reform-Zeitalter, II, 313 ff. Münzer's fundamental
principle: <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Omnia simul communia!</foreign>
<hi rend='italic'>Sebastian Frank</hi>, Chronica, Zeytbuch und Geschychtbibel etc.,
1551, fol. VI, 16, 27, 116, 194, 414, 433. John Bockholt's life presents us with a
striking contrast. While they were bringing his perfumed women, sparkling with jewels,
to his rose-covered bed, hung with curtains of gold cloth, on which he was
reclining, his subjects were a prey to the horrors of famine, to such an extent
that they were compelled to salt the bodies of children who had died
of starvation. How frightful the end of this communistic benefactor of mankind!
Libertine community of goods and women. (<hi rend='italic'>Calvin</hi>, Instructio adv.
Libertinos, cap. 21.) English communists in the age of the reformation.
(<hi rend='italic'>J. Story</hi>, Comment. on the Constitution of the U.S., I, 36.) Even
under Cromwell, there were many Englishmen who believed that farmers were no
longer obliged to pay rent to land-owners. On the sect of Levellers, see
<hi rend='italic'>Walker</hi>, History of the Independency, II, 152. Even in
<hi rend='italic'>Erasmus</hi>, we find some sympathy with communism. (Enchirid. milit.
Christ, 80.) <hi rend='italic'>Contra</hi>, see <hi rend='italic'>Melanchthon</hi>,
Prolegg. in Cic. de Off., Corp. Reform, XVI, 549 ff. The most remarkable systematic
works of this period are <hi rend='italic'>Thomas More's</hi>, Utopia, 1516,
and <hi rend='italic'>Campanella's</hi> Civitas, solis, 1620. <hi rend='italic'>Thomas
More</hi> bluntly says that all existing governments are in fact only permanent
conspiracies of the rich to further their own interests under the mask of the common
good, and to despoil labor. The abolition of money, which should be continued in use only
to carry on foreign war, would, he contends, remove all misery. There was
no really private property in his Utopia. There should be a rigid superintendence
of all work by the public authorities, whose duty it should be to see
to it, that no one should abandon agricultural pursuits. All should eat at a
common table and dress after the same fashion. Internal commerce should
give way to a mutual exchange of gifts under the supervision of the state.
<hi rend='italic'>Campanella</hi>, besides a community of goods, recommends continually
varying occupation, to last not more than four hours daily; education in common,
especially by means of pictures, popular encyclopedias etc., all under the supreme
guidance of a despotism to be composed of the wise, some secular
and some spiritual, operating through the confessional. Socialists nearly
always succeed better in the critical part of their works than in the positive.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>R. Mohl</hi>, Geschichte und Literatur der
Staatswissenschaften, § 1, 165 ff.</note> and again, in our own
day.<note place='foot'><p>Considering the aversion exhibited against private property
by <hi rend='italic'>J. J. Rousseau</hi>, and the unlimited power which he accords to
the majority for the time being in the state (Contrat Social, 1761, II, ch. 4), it cannot
be denied that his freedom and equality contain, to say the least, germs of
communism by no means insignificant. But, he would, in the present state
of civil society, have a feeling of respect for the rights of property implanted
in the mind of the child very early, and even before the feeling of liberty is
developed. (Emile, 1762, Livre II.) About the same time <hi rend='italic'>Morelly</hi>
published his Basiliade ou Naufrage des Iles flottantes, 1753, a political romance in the
interest of communism. See the same author's Code de la Nature, 1755.
<hi rend='italic'>Mably</hi>, in his two works, Doutes proposés aux Economistes, 1768,
and La Législation ou Principes des Lois, 1776, recommended the abolition of all
inequality and a real community of goods. The introduction of property seems
to him, <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>une faute qu'il était presque
impossible de faire</foreign>. Even <hi rend='italic'>Beccaria</hi> calls
property a dreadful but perhaps a necessary right which has left to the unfortunate
nothing but a naked existence. (Dei Delitti e delle Pene, 1765, cap.
22.) The French Reign of Terror came pretty near carrying these ideas into
effect. We need only refer to the abolition of the census, the payments made
to the workingmen who attended the section meetings, two francs per diem,
the enormous extension of confiscation, requisitions and forced loans, the
revolution effected in the fortunes of individuals by the system of issuing assignats,
the maximum affixed to the price of all the necessaries of life, the
abolition of indirect taxes, and of what remained of the economic institutions
handed down from the middle ages. According to <hi rend='italic'>St. Just</hi>:
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>l'opulence est une infamie; il ne faut ni
riches ni pauvres</foreign>. The Cahier des Pauvres demands,
first of all, that salaries <q>should no longer be estimated in accordance
with the murderous principles of unbridled luxury.</q> See Forster's letter
dated November 15, 1793. (Sämmtl. Schriften, IX, 125.) On the conspiracy
of Baboeuf, who was executed in 1796, and who wanted to see the completest
equality and community of labor, of enjoyment and education, the abolition
of large cities etc., see <hi rend='italic'>Buonarotti</hi>, La Conjuration de B., 1821.
This book contributed powerfully towards the revival of communistic ideas after the
July revolution. Among modern communists who are to be distinguished
from the more ancient, especially by the industrial coloring given to their
theories, <hi rend='italic'>Cabet</hi>, Voyage en Icarie, 1840, II, holds a very
prominent place. He declares the abolition of religion, of the family and of the state, to
be open questions, and desires to bring the practice of a community of
goods to a successful issue only through the peaceful channel of conviction.
</p>
<p>
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Reybaud</hi>, Etudes sur les Réformateurs contemporains ou
Socialistes modernes, 1840. <hi rend='italic'>L. Stein</hi>, Der Socialismus und
Communismus des heutigen Frankreich. See, also, the learned history of socialistic
systems in <hi rend='italic'>Marlo's</hi> Weltökonomie, I, 2, 435 ff.; and in what
concerns the most recent time, <hi rend='italic'>R. Meyer</hi>, Der Emancipationskampf
des vierten Standes, II, 1874, seq.; a book which, in spite of its many defects, both
doctrinal and journalistic, is as rich in thought, and in the knowledge of the subject
it treats of, as it is permeated by a love of truth regardless of consequences. Among the
opponents of socialism and communism, <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, On Population, B.
III, ch. 3, and <hi rend='italic'>B. Hildebrand</hi>, Die Nationalökonomie der Gegenwart
und Zukunft, vol. I, 1848, hold a very distinguished place. <hi rend='italic'>J. S.
Mill</hi>, Principles, II, ch. 1, 3, calls attention to the fact that hitherto the
principle of free property has never been consistently carried out. The first social
arrangement of modern society was almost everywhere the result of conquest and violence,
large traces of which yet remain. Things have always been made property which
ought not to be property. Governments have endeavored to intensify the
darkness of the dark side of property, and favored the concentration instead
of the diffusion of wealth etc. Hence, no one can claim that the social
wrongs, so-called, had their origin in property as such.
<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, Kapitalismus und Socialismus, 1870, has made a very
note-worthy effort to recognize whatever of truth there is in socialism, and to combat
its errors.</p></note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXX. Socialism And Communism. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXX.</head>
<head>Socialism And Communism. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
We thus see, that the attempts made by socialism and communism
are, by no means, phenomena unheard of in the past,
<pb n='242'/><anchor id='Pg242'/>
and peculiar to modern times, as the blind adherents and opponents
of them would have us believe. They are rather diseases
<pb n='243'/><anchor id='Pg243'/>
of the body social, which have affected every highly
civilized nation at certain periods of its existence. If the
<pb n='244'/><anchor id='Pg244'/>
body be too weak to react healthily and curatively (§
<ref target="Section_84">84</ref>), the
evil is very apt to lead to the decline of all true freedom and
<pb n='245'/><anchor id='Pg245'/>
order. The communist, viewing all other things, especially
the organization of the state, only as instruments to supply
his material and absolute wants, considers the liberal either as
a fool who is ever pursuing the phantoms of the brain, or as a
knave who covers his own selfishness under the mask of the
public welfare.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Saint Simon's</hi>
reproach to the liberals, that their fundamental principle
was: <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>ôte-toi de là, que je
m'y mette</foreign>, is well known.</note> Hence the adherents of communism are
satisfied with any form of government which seems to offer
them most, and this a ruthless despotism can do, at least, for the
moment. And, although they are ever ready for any revolution
in the form of government, and easily to be won over to
it, they are most readily captivated by a despotic revolution.
On the other hand, when communism seriously threatens all
that constitutes the wealth of a people, the owners of that
wealth are compelled to fly to any refuge which holds out the
promise to protect them from it, although by seeking that
same refuge they may destroy their own political freedom.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Additions to the Essay on Population, 1817, IV, ch.
7.</note> The Achean league, which under the leadership of Aratos, the
<q>enemy of tyrants,</q> had come into existence, promising so
much hope, beheld itself later, and mainly through fear of the
contagious effects of Spartan socialism under Cleomenes, compelled
<pb n='246'/><anchor id='Pg246'/>
to unite with the Macedonians, that is, to give themselves
up entirely. (§ 204).
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXI. Community Of Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXI.</head>
<head>Community Of Goods.</head>

<p>
We now, for the present, turn our gaze from the frightful
revolution, destructive of all civilization, which would necessarily
precede the establishment of a community of goods,<note place='foot'>The
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>travailleurs égalitaires</foreign>
wished to murder not only the king, the court,
and the ministry, but also the Liberals and all owners of property.</note>
and inquire what would be the consequences. Among angels
(<q>gods and sons of gods</q> of Plato) and mere animals, a community
of goods might, perhaps, exist without producing injury.
And so, too, it might exist among men bound one to
the other by the bonds of the truest love. The life of every
model family is accompanied by a species of community of
goods.<note place='foot'>As soon, indeed, as this true love disappears
in the married state, the community of goods even there degenerates only too
easily into a spoliation of the better party by the worse.</note>
But in more extensive social organizations, this love
is never found except as an element of the most exalted religious
enthusiasm, which, as a rule, is of very short duration;
of which the Acts of the Apostles (II, 44 ff, 32 ff, V, I, II)
affords us the best known and most beautiful example.<note place='foot'>The
community of goods of the first Christians at Jerusalem, so frequently
cited and extolled (<hi rend='italic'>James</hi>, I, 1), was only a community
of use, not of ownership (Acts IV, 32), and, throughout, a voluntary act of love,
not a duty (V. 4), least of all, a <emph>right</emph> which the poorer might assert.
Spite of all this, that community of goods produced a chronic state of poverty in the
church of Jerusalem. Hence, Paul had collections taken up for them on all sides, without,
however, anywhere establishing a similar institution. (Romans, 15, 26; I.
Corinth., 16, 1.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Mosheim</hi>, De vera Natura Communionis
Bonorum in Ecclesia Hierosol., in his Dissertatt. ad Histor. Eccles. pertinentes, II, 1
ff. As to whether <hi rend='italic'>Barnabas</hi> (Epist., 19) desired to say anything
more, compare Epist. ad Diognetum, 5. For a real recommendation of a community of goods,
on economic grounds, see <hi rend='italic'>Joh. Chrysostom.</hi>, in Acta Apost., Hom.
XI. Also <hi rend='italic'>Clemens Rom.</hi> c. 2 C. 12, qu. 1. Community of goods
among the Essenes: <hi rend='italic'>Philo.</hi> Opp. II. 457 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Joseph. Bell</hi>, Jud., II. 8. <hi rend='italic'>Bellermann</hi>,
Geschichtliche Nachrichten über die Essener. (1821.) In many monasteries, there has been
and is a species of community of goods. There was once a singular contest on
this subject, carried on between the Minorites and the Pope, in the time of
Louis of Bavaria. The Minorites claimed that property was a thing, so
much to be condemned, that even food, at the moment of eating it, did not
belong to the person using it. The Pope taught on the other hand, that even
Christ and the Apostles possessed property, part personal and part in common.
(<hi rend='italic'>Raynaldi</hi>, Ann. eccl., XV, 241, 285 ff.) Community of goods of the
Homiliates, later of the Brothers of Common Life, after the manner of the
monks, but of a much higher kind. (<hi rend='italic'>Ullmann</hi>, Reformatoren v.d.
Reform, II, 62 ff.) The first settlers of New Haven, Connecticut, held their property
in common. Land was divided among families in proportion to the number
of persons in them, and of the number of cattle they had brought with them;
and all sales and purchases were made on account of the whole community.
And so in Massachusetts during the first seven years of the colony's existence.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, Geschichte und Erdbeschreib. der Vereinigten Staaten,
II, 391, I, 557.) <hi rend='italic'>Herrnhut</hi> community of goods in Pennsylvania,
from 1742 to 1762, but which was done away with when the number of colonists became
too great. (<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, IV, 717.) Community of goods of the Shakers
and Lutheran Rappers. (<hi rend='italic'>Buckingham</hi>, Eastern States, II, 214, 427.
<hi rend='italic'>Prinz Neuwied</hi>, Reise in Nord Amerika, I, 136, ff.) Russian sects
with community of goods. (<hi rend='italic'>v. Haxthausen</hi>, I, 366, 407.)
<hi rend='italic'>Harless</hi>, christliche Ethik § 501, distinguishes very
well between the <q>anti-christian</q> and <q>pseudo christian</q> stand point, from
which it is sought to establish the doctrine of a community of goods. The
Christian view of this subject (compare Ephes., 4, 28, I; Thess., 4, 11, II, 3, 12;
Matth., 6, 24; Pet. 4, 10; Matth., 26, 7-11) is accused of hypocrisy by many socialists.
It is very easy, they say, when one is himself in comfortable circumstances,
to represent to the poor that their poverty is a school for heaven,
and to preach a contempt for riches etc. They entirely forget, that the first
promulgation of the Gospel was made at a time when the worst kind of pauperism
prevailed; and that even the Master Himself, and the greater number
of His Apostles belonged to the lowest stratum of society. <hi rend='italic'>Luke</hi>,
9, 58. Many of the Fathers of the Church, however, in their exhortations to benevolence,
used language in which modern Socialists have found a rich mine which
they have sedulously worked. (Compare <hi rend='italic'>Villegardelle</hi>, Histoire des
Idées sociales, 1846, 61 ff.)</note>
</p>

<pb n='247'/><anchor id='Pg247'/>

<p>
Where this love does not exist, each participant in the community
of goods will, as a rule, seek to do the least and enjoy
the most possible.<note place='foot'>Even <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi> says that
what is common to many is a matter of little concern to any one. (Polit., II, 1.)
<hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi> remarks: <q>We compete to-day
to see who works most and best. Under another regime, we should emulate
one another to see who should work least and worst.</q> (Harmonies Econ.,
ch. VIII.) When the first settlers of Virginia, in 1611, gave up the system
of common labor and of joint-stock companies, as much work was performed
in a day as formerly in a week, or as much by three workmen as formerly
by thirty. (<hi rend='italic'>Purchas</hi>, Pilgrims, iv, 1866.
<hi rend='italic'>Bancroft</hi>, History of the United States, I, 161.) Even in New
England, therefore among men both steady and accustomed to labor, who for conscience
sake had sacrificed so much, a community of goods was accompanied uninterruptedly by
famine. A change for the better took place, for the first time in 1623 with the
introduction of the institution of private property which was followed in 1624 by the
right of inheritance. (<hi rend='italic'>Bancroft</hi>, I, 340.) The military colonies
of Algeria, also, in which husbandry in common was carried on, begged, at the end of a
year, that the system should be abandoned, for the reason that it was good for
nothing but to generate idlers; and yet, these colonists were all powerful
men of about the same age, and accustomed to order and service in common.
They were, moreover, assisted by the nation with pay and food. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Bugeaud's</hi> account: Revue des deux Mondes, June 1, 1848. <q>The
French associations (after 1848), whose object was labor in common, have nearly all
died out.</q> <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi> in the Journal des Débats, Feb. 3,
1851. In the United States, sixteen phalansteries of Fourierites, founded between 1840 and
1846, had all collapsed in 1855. (<hi rend='italic'>D. Vierteljahrsschrift</hi>,
October, 1855, 205 ff.)</note> In a society of one hundred thousand
<pb n='248'/><anchor id='Pg248'/>
members, each individual would be interested in the results of
its aggregate frugality only indirectly, and only to the extent
of a one-hundred thousandth part of the whole; that is, practically,
not at all.<note place='foot'>Even in New Harmony, the members considered the task which
they had to perform to obtain food, clothing and shelter, as villeinage in the worst
sense of the term. (<hi rend='italic'>H. Bernhard v. Weimar</hi>, Nordamerikan. Reise,
V, 134 ff.; 151, 310, ff.) It is very inconsistent in socialists to continue the
proprietorship and heirship of the state. To be consistent they should give both
these rights only to mankind as a whole. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Kiraly</hi>, Ueber
Socialismus und Comm., 1868, 35.</note> Individual selfishness would expend itself
entirely on the division of what the whole community produced.
It would, consequently, and almost always be detrimental
to the whole, and to the other individuals of the
society; whereas, at present, it does so only in exceptional
cases. When Louis Blanc, as Mably had before him, recommended
that the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>point d' honneur</foreign> should
take the place of the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>interêt
personnel</foreign>, as a spur to production, and a check on consumption,
and cited the army as an illustration of its workings,
he forgot, among other things, the thirty cases in which the
<pb n='249'/><anchor id='Pg249'/>
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>code militaire</foreign>
pronounces sentence of death on the violators of
its provisions. And, as a matter of fact, the Münster Anabaptists
could not help punishing with death every transgression
of their communistic precepts.<note place='foot'>It would not be
entirely fair to take a partisan view of the <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>ateliers nationaux</foreign>
of 1848, and claim them as a practical refutation of socialistic utopias,
since no serious experiment was made with them. Compare <hi rend='italic'>E. Thomas</hi>,
Histoire des Ateliers nationaux considérés sous le double Point de Vue politique
et social, 1848.</note> If, in a community in which
the principles of communism were rigorously carried out, all
the burthens and enjoyments of life were equal, and equally
divided according to the ideas of the crowd, men like Thaer,
Arkwright, and others of their class, who now provide bread
for hundreds of thousands from their studies and laboratories,
would then be able, at most, with a rake and shovel, to provide
food for three or four. The division of labor, with its infinite
amount of productive force, would, for the most part, cease.
Nor would the consequence be that the humbler classes would
be freed from work of a coarse, mechanical, unintellectual and
severe nature; but that the higher classes would be dragged
down to engage in it likewise. And what an increase there
would be in the number of consumers at the same time!
Every man would, with a light heart, follow the most imperious
of human impulses if the whole community were to
educate his children. But we have seen that a community of
goods is desired most urgently in times of over-population.
Hence, here it would make the evil greater yet, by increasing
consumption and diminishing production.
</p>

<p>
Where there are now one thousand wealthy persons, and one
hundred thousand proletarians, there would be, after one generation,
no one wealthy and two hundred thousand proletarians.
Misery and want would be universal.<note place='foot'>Socialists generally overlook the
fact, that the greater number of enjoyments from which the poorer classes are excluded,
by the right of property, would not exist at all were it not for that very right.
(<hi rend='italic'>Spittler</hi>, Politik, 356 ff.) This remark may also be made of
<hi rend='italic'>Hugo's</hi> ingenious objections. (Naturrecht,
§ 208 ff.) One of the most effective pieces of socialistic declamation is
that the lower classes have a much shorter average of life than the upper.
Hence the institution of private property is charged with being a species of
spoliation of the poor of so many years of life, and the entire <q>present society</q>
condemned on that account. Here again it is not borne in mind, that
a few centuries ago the general average of life was probably still smaller;
and that it was precisely the growth and development of <q>present society</q>
that lengthened the days of the poorer classes even, although it may have
lengthened those of the rich in a still greater proportion. See § 246.</note>
For the purpose
<pb n='250'/><anchor id='Pg250'/>
of giving the crowd a very agreeable,<note place='foot'>But a community of goods would
not, by a great deal, accomplish as much as is generally supposed. In Prussia, for
instance, in 1867, only about three per cent. of the entire number of families in the
community had a yearly income of 1,000 thalers; only nine per cent. had 500 thalers or
more, and only 6,465 returned an income of more than 4,000 thalers, while only
590 returned one of 16,000 thalers. (Preuss. statist. Ztschr, 1868, 83.
<hi rend='italic'>Held</hi>, Die Einkommensteuer, 197 ff) How little, therefore, could
the poor here gain by the spoliation of the rich! Besides, the purely personal consumption
of the rich is, after all, not so great; and if all luxury were abandoned,
an innumerable number of men would lose their gains. (Compare <hi rend='italic'>Ad.
Smith</hi>, Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 11, 2.) It would be to kill the hen that had
hitherto laid the golden egg in order to divide its flesh a little more equally.</note>
but rather short-lived
period of pleasure, a period simply of transition, almost all
that constitutes the wealth of a nation, all the higher goods of
life, would have to be cast to the waves, and henceforth all
men would have to content themselves with the gratifications
afforded by potatoes, brandy and the pleasures of the most
sensual of appetites. And then, the equal education of all,
demanded by the communists, would have no result but this, that no one would
acquire a higher scientific training.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Babeuf</hi>
declared all arts and sciences to be evils. He would have no one
learn anything but Reading, Writing, Arithmetic, and a little of the Geography
of France; and have the strictest censorship enforced to keep every
one within these limits. Compare the able criticism of <hi rend='italic'>Proudhon</hi>,
Contradictions, ch. 12.</note> But,
after all, there lurks concealed in communism much more of
envy than is generally supposed.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='251'/><anchor id='Pg251'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXII. The Organization Of Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXII.</head>
<head>The Organization Of Labor.</head>

<p>
Most theoretical adherents of the doctrine of a community
of goods, feeling<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>Umpfenbach</hi>,
Nationalökonomie, 201, where a community of
goods obtains, there can be but the alternative, viz.: whether each person or
each family shall receive just the same amount. (The former would be more
in harmony with principle, but what an over-population would be the consequence!)
Precisely so, too, if each person were to come and take his own
portion (anarchy!), or if it were parcelled out to each by a board of distributors
(despotism!).</note> more or less the weight of the above objections,
have supplemented it with the idea of an organization
of labor<note place='foot'>This expression came into vogue, principally, through
<hi rend='italic'>L. Blanc</hi>, Organization
du Travail (1841), the leading ideas in which work are the following:
The suppression of competition by the establishment of state industries;
equality of remuneration for labor; equality and legislative determination of
the rate of interest; the choice of superintendents by the workmen. With
many modern socialists, the shibboleth is not so much <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>liberté</foreign> as <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>solidarité</foreign>. Besides, <hi rend='italic'>Fichte's</hi>
Naturrecht (1796), and his geschlossener Handelsstaat, are,
without doubt, among the most remarkable works favoring an <q>organization
of labor.</q> They aim at the destruction of the present social system, which, at
most, needs only to be reformed and rejuvenated; and to galvanize the dead
body into a new and different life (Medea's magic cauldron!). Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Corvaja</hi>, Bancocrazia o il gran Libro sociale, 1840.</note>
or the centralized superintendence of all production
and consumption, either by the government already existing,
or by one to be created anew. Such a government would be,
of course, a despotism such as the world has scarcely yet seen,
a Cæsaro-Papacy, usurping both the place and power of Father
of the universal Family.<note place='foot'>Cabet's Icarian colony in America numbered
298 adults and only 107 children. Yet spite of this condition, so favorable to
production, it did but a very sorry business. Its government was very similar to that of
a house of correction or a penitentiary. Even in religious matters, spite of all pretended
toleration, those members who did not agree with Cabet were described in
the official weekly paper as <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>des infames
ou des aveugles</foreign>. (D. Vierteljahrsschrift, 1855, October, 205 ff.)</note>
But the evils mentioned above
would be entailed none the less. Every incentive which now
<pb n='252'/><anchor id='Pg252'/>
moves man to industry or frugality would disappear, and nothing
remain but universal philanthrophy; or, if you will, but patriotism,
virtues which are not wanting even now. Even guardianship
of the government newly created would be carried on
in a very loose manner; for it would be exercised without any
feeling of personal interest, even in the most favorable case
supposable. It is well known and easily understood, that
state industries are never engaged in, in the long run, with the
same zeal, nor crowned with the same success, as competing
private industries. It is well known, too, how intimate
the connection is between the political freedom of a people and
their economic production; that, for instance, England's greater
wealth, as compared with that of Turkey, depends, most
largely, on the freedom that obtains in the former country
and the servitude that prevails in the latter.<note place='foot'>An
eastern sage says, that land possesses the ideal of legal security
through which a beautiful woman, decked with pearls, might travel without
danger. What would such a sage say of a European country, in which even
orphan children have their property not only preserved to them, but find it
increased from having been placed at interest, as soon as they reach their
majority? (<hi rend='italic'>Barrow</hi>.)</note> And we may inquire
just here, what the result would be, if the despotism of
government should go ten times farther that it has ever gone
in Turkey, when, moreover, the despot who led the state, was
not an individual with his few officials, but the whole crowd,
with its million eyes and million hands. It would, practically,
be to give every producer an escort of a policeman and a revenue
agent, as if he were a prisoner.
</p>

<p>
And where would be the gain? A division of wealth
which would seem unjust to many would exist now as well as
before, because the idle and the unskillful would receive the
same reward as the most industrious and skillful.<note place='foot'><q>The
equality of communism is the worst species of inequality, because
it guarantees to one for two hours of poor labor as much as it does to an
other for four hours of good work.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>,
Harmonies économiques, ch. 8.)</note> The opposition
of one class of society to another, so much complained
<pb n='253'/><anchor id='Pg253'/>
of, would continue. The only difference would be, that
whereas, it now comes from the weak, it would then come
from the strong.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Proudhon</hi>,
Qu'est-ce que la Propriété, 283, says, very justly, that <q>a community
of goods is the spoliation of the strong by the weak.</q></note>
Compulsory association is certainly more
prolific in strife and crime than is a state of society in which
everybody manages his own affairs.
</p>

<p>
A journey on foot, in company with others, is allowed, on
all hands, to be a very good test of friendship. But, a community
of goods would, in the strictest sense of the word,
be a journey on foot through the whole of life with numberless
<q>friends.</q> Here, every one would believe himself entitled
to possess whatever pleased him. And, who would decide;
since so many communists preach the dissolution and
extinction of all government, and the reign of anarchy? Besides,
there can be no doubt, that the difference of human
talents and human wants, would soon, spite of every law, lead
to a difference in property again. Hence, that first revolution
would have to be repeated from time to time&mdash;a real Sisyphus
labor! No sooner have the bees produced anything, than the
drones come, and divide anew!
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXIII. The Organization Of Labor. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXIII.</head>
<head>The Organization Of Labor. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
Experience, however, teaches us, that, in all the lower stages
of civilization, a community of goods exists to a greater or
lesser extent.<note place='foot'>Called a negative community of goods, by
<hi rend='italic'>Zacchariä</hi>, Vierzig Bücher vom Staate, IV,
146, in contradistinction to the positive and universal community of gain,
as desired by the communists.</note> The institution of private property has been
more fully evolved out of this condition of things, only in proportion
as well-being and culture have been developed as cause
and effect of such well-being. Thus, among most nations of
hunters and fishermen, the idea of private property was unknown
<pb n='254'/><anchor id='Pg254'/>
when these nations were first discovered. This is,
indeed, very natural. Their chief spring of production flows
as if of itself, apparently inexhaustible; and the hunter can
hardly think of such a thing as saving any of his booty.<note place='foot'>Community
of goods and of women among the Ichthyophages on the Red
Sea, who lived in caves, went naked for the most part, plundered all shipwrecked
people, and never reached an advanced age. <hi rend='italic'>Diodor.</hi>, III, 15 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Peripl.</hi>, Maris Erythr., 12. Concerning the Scythians, see
<hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, VII, 300; the Spaniards, <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>,
Marius, 6; the Rhetians, <hi rend='italic'>Dio Cass.</hi> LIV, 22; the
Triballi, <hi rend='italic'>Isocr.</hi>, Panath., § 237; the Kilici,
<hi rend='italic'>Sext.</hi>, Empir. Pyrrh. Hypot. III, 24. Community of goods among the
Caribs who performed all their work in common, and had, at least in the case of males, a
common table and common stores with supplies. (<hi rend='italic'>Petr. Martyr</hi>, Dec.
VII, 1. <hi rend='italic'>Rochefort</hi>, II, c. 16. <hi rend='italic'>B. Edwards</hi>,
History of the West Indies, I, 43 ff.) Among the Kuskowimers of Russian America, all the
able-bodied men of the tribe live together. (<hi rend='italic'>v. Wrangell</hi>,
Nachrichten, 129.) Among the inhabitants of the Aleutian islands, at least in times of
scarcity of food, the produce of the fisheries is divided according to their need.
(<hi rend='italic'>V. Wrangell</hi>, 185.) The organization
of labor is rigidly enforced among the Otomacs, on the banks of
the Orinoco, and they are, nevertheless, more civilized than their neighbors.
(<hi rend='italic'>Depons</hi>, Voyage, I, 295.) A community of goods must, however, be
considered an advance, in the case of an isolated people; and it is an error to
look upon it as the most primitive condition, as does, for instance,
<hi rend='italic'>Ambrosius</hi>, De off. Minist. I, 28, and <hi rend='italic'>Frederick
II</hi>, in the preface to his general code. (Allgemein. Gesetzbuche, 1231.) The
hospitality of the inhabitants of the Friendly Islands borders on a community of goods.
(<hi rend='italic'>Mariner</hi>, Freundschaftsinseln, 75, 81.
<hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, Kulturgeschichte, IV, 398.) Concerning the
beginnings of property among the Esquimaux, See <hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, II,
294.</note> And, among nomadic nations, the land is a great meadow held
in common; and the industry of plunder is considered, as it is in all
inferior stages of civilization, especially honorable.<note place='foot'>Οὐκ
ἄδοξον ἧν παρὰ τοῖς παλαιοῖς ληστεύειν, ἀλλ᾽ ἔνδξον.
(<hi rend='italic'>Didym.</hi>, ad Odyss. II, 73, IX, 252.)</note>
The <hi rend='italic'>conquistadores</hi> of Peru found there something very
like a community of goods, under the despotic guardianship
of the state, viz.: a yearly division of all lands among the
people, in proportion to their rank; the cultivation of these
lands in common, under the superintendence of the state, and
to the sound of music. But, at the stage of civilization that
Peru was then in, land is about the only resource possessed.
The results were the usual ones. A country like Peru, with
<pb n='255'/><anchor id='Pg255'/>
only one city, no beasts of burthen, no plows, no trades and
no commerce, cannot possibly be rich.<note place='foot'>In Mexico,
the Spaniards found land ownership among the most distinguished
of the natives, but only a species of possession in common and
common store houses among the peasantry. (<hi rend='italic'>Robertson</hi>,
History of America, § VII.) Hence, the agriculture of the country was so unimportant that
the little army of the <hi rend='italic'>conquistadores</hi> frequently
produced a famine by their marches.</note> That the constitution
of Lycurgus established a sort of community of goods
among the Spartans, is well known. I need only recall the
public education, the meals in common, the authorization of
stealing,<note place='foot'>The Tcherkesses considered robbery
honorable provided the robber was not caught <hi rend='italic'>in
flagrante</hi>. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Koch</hi>, Reise in den kaukasischen Isthmus,
I, 370 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Bell</hi>, Journal of a Residence in Circassia,
I, 181, II, 201. The organized robber bands of ancient Egypt, when it was so
highly civilized (<hi rend='italic'>Diodor.</hi>, I, 80) may, on the other hand,
be accounted for by similar conditions actually existing in the large cities of
our own day.</note> the prohibition of trade, of the precious metals and
fine furniture, the equal division of property and the inalienable
character of the land<note place='foot'>What a frightful organization of
labor we find in Sparta, combined with a community of goods! Let us recall the exposing
of children authorized by law, the mode of education which must have cost the life of
all whose constitution was weak, the <hi rend='italic'>cryptia</hi>, the stern
hierarchy of age etc. <hi rend='italic'>Plut.</hi>, Inst. Lac. 2, appreciates the
bad taste of the black broth at its true value. The Cretan community of goods was
based chiefly on the unnatural relation created by the authorities known as
paiderastia; and which was a very efficient means to prevent over-population.
(<hi rend='italic'>Plat.</hi>, De Legg, I, 636. <hi rend='italic'>Arist.</hi>,
Polit. II, 8.)</note> etc. With such laws, Sparta could
neither be, nor desire to become, wealthy. Of all Greek
states of any historical importance, it preserved longest the
economic peculiarities belonging to a low stage of civilization.
Among most modern nations, the fundamental idea of
their land laws, which had their origin in the middle ages, is,
that each family is only the usufructuary, and that the community
is the sovereign proprietor of the soil. This community
of landed possession finds expression, among other things, in
the vast extent of communal woods and pasturages, in the
varied intersecting of parcels of land one by the other, which,
indeed, change proprietors from time to time, and in the common
<pb n='256'/><anchor id='Pg256'/>
working of the land, carried as far as possible etc.<note place='foot'>Remarkable
reasons therefor in <hi rend='italic'>Cæsar</hi>, Bell. Gall., VI, 22.</note> In
all medieval times,<note place='foot'>There are, especially in Russia, a multitude
of such institutions among the inhabitants of the country still. See
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Nationalökonomik des Ackerbaues, § 71
ff.</note> not only the individual is considered an
owner of the land, but, over and above him, the family. At
the same time, we are wont to find existing an amount of
mortmain property in the hands of corporations, monastery
lands, crown lands and domains of very great importance.<note place='foot'>In
the Corpus Juris Canonici, that crown of medieval theology, politics
and jurisprudence, the ideal of a community of goods occupies a place
almost as prominent as in the works of modern socialists. The only difference
is, that in the former the opposition to private property arises from a
one-sided religiousness and contempt of the world, while, in the latter, it
arises generally from irreligiousness and over-estimation of worldly goods.</note>
All these institutions have declined in number and shown a
disposition to disappear, in proportion as national husbandry
or economy has grown more productive.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXIV. The Organization Of Labor. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXIV.'/>
<anchor id="Section_84"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXIV.</head>
<head>The Organization Of Labor. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
To this tendency we find, indeed, another, and a no less
powerful one, opposed. Everywhere as civilization advances,
the sphere of action of the state grows larger, and the ends
it serves more numerous.
</p>

<p>
In its origin, government was established to preserve only
the external security of its subjects. By degrees, it comes to
look after their internal legal security, by enforcing internal
peace, prohibiting revenge for bloodshed etc. It next extends
its care to the well-being, the culture, and even to the comfort
of the people. But the claims of the state must grow in the
same proportion as the service it renders. While Lowe, in
1822, estimated the yearly net income of the British people at
<pb n='257'/><anchor id='Pg257'/>
£251,000,000; the government expenses,<note place='foot'>This does not include the
cost of the schools, churches and benevolent institutions.</note> in 1813 and 1814,
averaged £106,000,000, and these sums were voluntarily devoted
to public purposes by parliament. And so, between
1685 and 1841, the population of England more than trebled
its numbers, But, in the same period of time, the outlay of
the state increased forty fold. (<hi rend='italic'>Macaulay</hi>.) Simultaneously
with this development of things, it becomes more and more
usual by the exercise of the power of eminent domain and
others like it, to sacrifice private rights, acquired by the very
best of titles, to the preponderating common good. We
may allude, further, to the duty, universally imposed in
modern times, of performing military service, to the national
systems of public instruction in so many countries; to the
large number of societies, joint-stock companies, popular holidays;
but particularly to the associations for insurance of
every description. And so it may, indeed, be claimed that we
have come nearer to a community of goods than could have
been dreamed of a hundred years ago.<note place='foot'>According to
<hi rend='italic'>Lassalle</hi>, System der erworbenen Rechte, 1861, § 259, history
shows that law, as civilization advances, curtails more and more the
proprietary sphere of private individuals, inasmuch as it tends more and
more to place a greater number of objects outside the circle of individual
ownership.</note> And yet, these are,
for the most part, institutions in which we find reflected the
peculiar strength and solidity of our age. Whoever wishes to
compare the power of one people with that of another, must
take into account not only the elements which constitute their
intellectual and physical force, but especially their inclination
to permit these elements to coöperate for public purposes.<note place='foot'>Saint
Simonism is a warning example of this tendency. Saint Simon
never lost an opportunity to give vent to his utter contempt for the liberals,
and for constitutional government&mdash;<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>ce
bátard du régime féodal et du régime industriel</foreign>; and to counsel the crown,
after the example of Louis XI. to place itself at the head of the working class, and
in opposition to the middle class. (Oeuvres de <hi rend='italic'>Saint Simon</hi>,
éd. 1841, 44, 148, 209.) <hi rend='italic'>Bazard</hi>, Exposition, 76, demanded
that all antagonism between the temporal and spiritual powers, all opposition
for the sake of freedom, <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>méfiance
organisée</foreign> of parliaments, and all competition, should cease. Even education
he would have bestowed according to <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>capacité</foreign>, which he would have determined by the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>chefs légitimes de la société</foreign>
(280). To the criminal court should be referred all cases of <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>delicts</foreign>, that is, all inopportune acts, even in
the scientific and artistic departments. They should be tried after the manner of the
<q>courts of trade;</q> that is, in a summary way, without appeal, and by experts
(317 ff). All the relations of property should be determined by the <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>décision arbitrale des chefs d'industrie</foreign> (326).
<hi rend='italic'>Bazard</hi> everywhere insists that the reign of genius and of
self-sacrifice on the one hand, and on the other of confidence and obedience, is the
only true policy (330). Saint Simonism was nearly related to Bonapartism.</note>
</p>

<pb n='258'/><anchor id='Pg258'/>

<p>
We may now inquire: At what point does this increasing
community cease to be a gain? This is as easily determined
generally, as it is difficult to say what the limit to it is in particular
instances. Progress in the direction of a community
of interests of this nature is beneficial, only so long but certainly
as long as it corresponds with the feeling entertained by
the community, that they have interests in common. Hence it
is, that such a noble kind of communism reigns in art and literature,
one which causes the stronger to willingly labor for the
weaker, and with the greatest success.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
Nat. Œk., III, Aufl., I, 61.</note> And so, too, the christian
care of the poor, even were it carried to the height of the
Gospel counsels (Luke, 3:11), would be no direct obstacle in
the way of the development of a nation's public economy, provided
it were given, and accepted, only as christian benevolence.
Every approximation towards a community of goods
should be effected by the love of the rich for the poor, not by
the hatred of the poor for the rich. If all men were true
Christians, a community of goods might exist without danger.
But then, also, the institution of private property would have
no dark side to it. Every employer would give his workmen
the highest wages possible, and demand in return only
the smallest possible sacrifice.<note place='foot'>If we remove
in thought, all injurious elements from a community of
goods, and add to it all the incentives and restraints necessary to be added,
we shall have a state of things entirely similar to that in a nation whose public
and private affairs are carried on in accordance with the principles of a
healthy system of Political Economy as understood to-day. (Edinburgh
Review, January, 1851.)</note><note place='foot'>How true freedom is
accompanied by what <hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi> calls <q>true Saint
Simonism and true communism,</q> see <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, § 210.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='259'/><anchor id='Pg259'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXV. The Right Of Inheritance.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXV.'/>
<anchor id="Section_85"/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXV.</head>
<head>The Right Of Inheritance.</head>

<p>
The right of inheritance to resources has its origin in a combination
of the idea of the family with the idea of property.
And, indeed, this combination of ideas is a very natural one.
The larger portion of mankind consider the pleasures of the
family as the highest attainable, and endeavor, whenever their
economic means make it at all possible, to secure them. At
the same time, the selfishness of most men is not confined to
their own persons, but extends also to their posterity. Hence
it is that bed and board, <hi rend='italic'>eonnubium</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>commercium</hi>, have,
from time immemorial, been considered correlative ideas; and,
to all the more logical socialists, a community of wives (or
celibacy)<note place='foot'>The experiments of a community of goods,
which have proved successful in practice, were all based on the more
or less complete celibacy of the members of the societies. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatsw. Unters., II, Aufl., 45.</note>
is as dear as a community of goods.<note place='foot'>Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Proudhon</hi> (Contradictions, ch. 5) says that the many socialists,
who would construct their societies after the type of the family, as the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>molscule organique</foreign>, are all
wrong. The family has a <q>monarchical, patriarchal</q> character.
In it, the principle of authority is formed and preserved. On it, ancient
and feudal society was based; and <q>precisely against this old patriarchal
constitution, modern democracy protests and revolts.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Fourier</hi> calls marriage, <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>un groupe essentiellement faux: faux par le nombre borné
à deux, par l'absence de liberté et par les dissidences du goṅt, qui éclatent dès le
premier jour</foreign>. (Nouveau Monde, 57.)</note> (§ 245.) And
in practice, the greater number of nations of hunters, who,
according to our conceptions, have no knowledge of a real
family and no knowledge of property, have a custom of burying
with the dead the things they used, to kill their cattle etc.,
or to deprive minor children of their inheritance.<note place='foot'>On the
Indians of North America, see <hi rend='italic'>Schoolraft</hi>, Information respecting
the Indian Tribes of the United States, II, 194; on the South American
<hi rend='italic'>d'Orbigny</hi>, Voyage, IV, 220, and passim, on the South
Sea Islanders, the Novara-Reise, II, 418; on the ancient Albanians,
<hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, XI, 503.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='260'/><anchor id='Pg260'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXVI. Economic Utility Of The Right Of
Inheritance.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXVI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXVI.</head>
<head>Economic Utility Of The Right Of Inheritance.</head>

<p>
The certainty, that the material welfare of their children depends,
in great part, on their industry and frugality, is one of
the most powerful incentives to good, in the case of most
men. And this is the basis of the economic utility of the family
right of inheritance.<note place='foot'>The hereditary transmission
of property to posterity has an obvious tendency
to make a man a good citizen. It ranges his passions on the side of
duty, and induces him to make himself profit the common good, and it assures
him that his reward shall not die with himself, but that it shall be
handed down to those to whom he is joined by the dearest and most tender
feelings. (See <hi rend='italic'>Blackstone's</hi> Commentaries, II, 11.)
Without the right of inheritance, credit is scarcely possible, since
with the death of the debtor the only stay of the creditor would
cease.</note> There is scarcely any other institution
which opposes over-population with such efficiency, for
the reason, that the obstacle placed in its way here is placed
very directly, at the point where it can make itself felt most,
viz.: in the life of the family itself. The weaker the family feeling,
the less does the abolition of the right of inheritance interfere
with the economic interests of a nation. Hence, for instance,
it is, that taxes imposed upon legacies, bequests, testamentary
gifts etc., are less objectionable in proportion as they
affect only those in the more remote degrees of relationship
in which inheritance is something merely accidental. While,
when a nation is yet in the intermediate stages of civilization,
the <emph>family</emph> right of inheritance seems to be very strong,
especially as regards landed property, a consequence of the
fact, that a superior kind of title to such property is recognized
to exist in the family; at a period, when individualism
becomes more developed, the liberty of devise by will is wont
to prevail more and more.<note place='foot'>Testamentary freedom
(which obtained in places there about the beginning
of the eighteenth century) prevails completely in England at present,
contrary to the principle of the Roman law requiring an obligatory portion
(<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>la légitime</foreign>) to be
left to the heirs, which is still binding in France, but in a
very much developed form. The consequence is that last testaments are as
frequent in England as they are rare in France. There were, in Paris, in
1825, 7,649 judicial, and only 1,081 testamentary partitions of property.
(<hi rend='italic'>Monnier</hi>.) In Great Britain, in 1838, the number
of testamentary alienations of property taxed stood to those in which there
was no will, in the proportion of 8:3; and the values of the alienated property
as 10:1. (<hi rend='italic'>Porter</hi>.) Among a people noted for their high moral
tone, testamentary freedom is a powerful means of strengthening paternal authority
on the one hand, and of keeping alive, in the minds of parents, on the other, a
sense of responsibility for the future of their children. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi>, Tübinger Zeitschr., 1854, 143, ff.</note>
Then the right of inheritance becomes,
<pb n='261'/><anchor id='Pg261'/>
so to speak, a more elevated species of personal property,
a prolongation of the same beyond the grave. Should
testamentary freedom be too much hampered, selfishness would
manifest itself in a way much more detrimental to economic
interests, viz.: in the consumption of wealth, during the lifetime
of its owner. Every man would be but a life annuitant
of his own property.
</p>

<p>
But, at the same time, in periods of moral decline, complete
freedom may degenerate so as to produce evils equally great.
The wealthy Bœotians, in the later days of Hellenic history,
were wont to form themselves into dissolute drinking companies;
and not only the childless, but even fathers of families
made over their property to these companies, limiting their
offspring to a portion which it was made their duty to let them
have. It was so in Rome, also, in Cicero's time, when every
acquaintance of standing took it very ill if not remembered in
the will of the testator, and where Octavian, for instance, in
the last twenty years of his reign, received about 70,000,000
thalers through legacies left him by his <q>friends.</q><note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Polyb.</hi>, XX, 6. Hence it was, that all (?) the wealth of Thebes,
when it was destroyed by Alexander the Great, was only 440 talents. (Athen., IV,
148.) <hi rend='italic'>Drumann</hi>, Gesch. Roms. etc., VI, 333 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, Phil., II, 16. <hi rend='italic'>Hoeck</hi>,
Röm. Gesch., I, 2, 118. <hi rend='italic'>Sueton.</hi>, Octav., 66. An especially
scandalous instance in <hi rend='italic'>Petron.</hi>, 140. For a masterly theory
of legacy-hunting, see <hi rend='italic'>Horat.</hi>, Sat., II,
5. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Lucian</hi>, Dialogues of the Dead, 5-9.
<hi rend='italic'>Petronius</hi> speaks of a <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>turba hæredipetarum</foreign>. (124.)</note> Here,
<pb n='262'/><anchor id='Pg262'/>
the repeal of the law making it obligatory on testators to leave
a certain proportion of their wealth to their children would
remove the last safe-guard of their material welfare.<note place='foot'>Even the
revolutionary shibboleth, <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>paternité</foreign>, really means nothing more
than the equal right of inheritance of all, i.e., the abolition of the right of
inheritance! (<hi rend='italic'>R. Meyer</hi>.) The strongest attack, from a scientific
point of view, made on the right of inheritance in more recent times, comes from Saint
Simonism. The founder himself, after a life rich in experience but poor in action,
spent in the search of much but in the finding of little, succeeded only
in arraying the industrial and proprietary classes against each other, in declaring
the poorest class to be the most important of all, and in basing the
new <hi rend='italic'>religion of love</hi> on the emancipation of labor. His disciples
went further. In order to abolish all the privileges of birth,
<hi rend='italic'>Bazard</hi>, Exposition de la Doctrine de Saint Simon, 1831, p. 172,
ff., taught that it was not enough to distribute public employments according to merit,
and in the interest of the people generally, but that the distribution of property
should be made in accordance with the same principle. The inequality of ownership should
correspond with the inequality of merit. Every one may, during his life,
keep what he had acquired himself, but give it to the state at death. Thus
would a reconciliation be effected between the general interest and private
interest; and the public revenue, supplied in this way, might easily be employed
in place of the revenue raised by such taxation as weighs most
heavily on the inferior classes. <hi rend='italic'>F. Huet</hi>, also, Le Regne social
du Christianisme, 1853, III, 5, would have all private property, after the death of the
owner, fall <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>également à tous les jeunes
travailleurs</foreign>. The practical consequences of this system may now be seen in
Turkey. There, the principal military fiefs are held in this way. Hence it is, that the
Turkish owner of such a fief builds as little as possible. When one of his walls
threatens to fall, it is kept standing by means of props. If it falls in fact, the only
consequence is that there are fewer rooms in the house, and the owner settles beside the
ruins. (<hi rend='italic'>Denon</hi>, I, p. 193.) In the Butan, there exists a species
of practical Saint Simonism. <hi rend='italic'>Robinson</hi>, Descriptive Account of
Assan, 1841.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXVII. Landed Property.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXVII.</head>
<head>Landed Property.</head>

<p>
As land, in its uncultivated state, has neither been produced
by man, nor can be entirely consumed by him, the above demonstration
of the necessity of private property cannot without
<pb n='263'/><anchor id='Pg263'/>
any more ado, be extended to land.<note place='foot'>It was chiefly fear of the
consequences of the declamations of the socialists and their declamation against
<q>monopoly</q> that induced <hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi> to reduce all
the value of landed property to that of the capital employed in its manuring,
improvement etc. (Harmonies, ch. 9.) We may, however, unreservedly
grant him that, as a rule, until the time of its original possession by man, land
had no <hi rend='italic'>valeur</hi> whatever (278).</note> Hence, individual
property in land is everywhere much more recent than individual
property in capital.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Kant</hi> thinks the very
contrary: Metaph. Anfangsgründe der Rechtslehre, (Werke, IX, 72 ff).
<hi rend='italic'>Contra</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Grotius</hi>, J. B. et P., II, 2.
<hi rend='italic'>Graswinkel</hi>, in his Schriften für die Freiheit des Meeres, 1652
ff., in <hi rend='italic'>Laspeyres</hi>, Geschichte der niederländischen N. Œk., 12.
<hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, Neue Grundlegung, I, 307.</note>
</p>

<p>
But a certain expenditure of capital and labor is necessary
that land may be used productively, and, in most instances,
this employment of capital and labor is of long duration, irrevocable
in the very nature of things, and one the fruits of
which can be reaped only after some time has elapsed. Now,
this cooperation of capital and labor is such, that no one would
undertake to employ them in the cultivation of the land, had
he not the strongest assurance of possessing it. Hence, agriculture
in its most rudimentary stage supposes ownership of
the land, at least from the time that it is <q>tickled with the
hoe,</q> until it <q>smiles with the harvest;</q> or, to express it more
accurately, all the time intervening between the work of the
plow and the labor of the sickle. The more, afterwards, population
and civilization increase, the more products must be
wrung from the soil. But this can be accomplished only by
means of its more <emph>intensive</emph> cultivation (higher farming), by
lavishing a greater amount of capital and labor on it, and, as
a rule, by extending the circle of agricultural operations by
means of combinations more and more artificial. Hence, the
progress of civilization demands an ever increasing fixity, and
a more pronounced shaping of landed property (the <hi rend='italic'>specification</hi>
of jurists), in the interests of all who share in this progress,
and even of those who own no landed property themselves.
Were there no property in land, every one would find it more
<pb n='264'/><anchor id='Pg264'/>
difficult and laborious to gratify his want of agricultural
products;<note place='foot'><q>A district of Tartary of ten square miles, in
which several hordes pasture their flocks, may contain between 400 and 500
shepherds, who find employment in this mode of production.</q> In Brie, in
France, on the same area, 50,000 peasants who own no land, live and draw
their sole income from their labors in the fields (<hi rend='italic'>J. B.
Say</hi>).</note>
and the products themselves would be of an inferior
kind.
</p>

<p>
Thus, for instance, in Camargo, the lackmus was formerly
prepared from plants to be had <q>free</q> in the woods. It was
then, however, much dearer than it is now that the plants are
artificially raised on landed property.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Schubert</hi>, Reise durch Frankreich und Italien, I, 188.</note>
It is otherwise with
the fisheries. The appropriation of rivers or seas would not
tend to increase the abundance of their products, and hence
this appropriation is, on the whole, rare.<note place='foot'><q>Without labor,
the earth bestows nothing on man but a stopping place.
Hence, the reasons for private property do not extend so far as to prove that
the great land and water highways should not be reserved as common property,
and as a home to every man.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Zachariä</hi>, vom Staate, VII,
43.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXVIII. Landed Property. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXVIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXVIII.</head>
<head>Landed Property. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
Whenever this admixture of capital and labor with land has
taken place to no great extent, private property in land is not
found developed in any degree. Thus, there are even now
many half-civilized countries in which the land is forfeited because
not tilled for many years, and where it may be occupied
by the first person who will cultivate it.<note place='foot'>This is the practice in
Taway. <hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, V, 130. And so in
ancient Germany. <hi rend='italic'>J. Grimm</hi>, Rechtsalterthümer, 92. Right of the
<q>dead fire</q> in Spain and Portugal during the middle ages. <hi rend='italic'>S.
Rosa de Viterbo</hi>: Elucidario das Palavras etc., I, 470. In many parts of Persia, the
land belongs to anyone who has provided it with water by canals or wells.
(<hi rend='italic'>Fraser</hi>, Journey in Chorasan, ch. 7.) Especially after the
Mongolian devastation about the beginning of the fourteenth century, it was decreed
that land which had remained uncultivated for a long time should belong to the person
who made it productive. (<hi rend='italic'>d'Ohsson</hi>, Hist. des Mongols, IV, 418.)
Similarly, in the time of the ancient Persians (<hi rend='italic'>Polyb.</hi>, X, 28,
3), the harvest for the first five years belonged to the person who first irrigated the
land. On the upper Euphrates, likewise, the land is very often neither sold nor leased.
Anyone who will till it and pay one-tenth of the produce to the bey may
have it for nothing. (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, X, 669; compare VIII, 468; IX,
900.) So, too, among the Fulah and Mandingo negroes, and even among the Tscherkessans.
(<hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, Kulturgeschichte, III, 337 ff.) As the latest stages of
development so often present instances of a reversion to the earliest, we find that
Theodosius and Valentinian decreed that the <hi rend='italic'>agri deserti</hi> should,
after two years' cultivation, belong to the possessor. L. 8, Cod. Just., XI, 58.</note>
In Europe, common
<pb n='265'/><anchor id='Pg265'/>
possession of forests and pasture lands asserted itself much
longer than that of arable land, because, in the case of the
former, labor and capital play a much less important part in
the management of them. And yet, even in the case of arable
land etc., and, in the highest stages of civilization, the property-quality
is yet less developed than the property-quality of
capital. How seldom do we find <hi rend='italic'>fidei commissa</hi> of capital,
or capital juridically tied up. We find that the law of all
ancient nations drew a marked distinction between moveable
and immoveable property, and that the power of disposing of
the former by sale, pledge, in dowry, partition etc., was a much
freer one. And even now, the police power which may be
exercised over moveable property is much more restricted
than that over houses and land.<note place='foot'>Thus anyone
may burn his own coat or throw it in the water; but no
one may set fire to his own house or drown his land by the destruction of a
dam. Even the non-user of a large area, in a thickly populated region,
would scarcely be permitted. The taking of property by the state, at the
present day in times of peace, is confined almost exclusively to land.</note>
The justice of the exclusive
right of possession to what one has earned and saved is obvious
to every one. On the other hand, the appropriation of
<q>original and indestructible natural forces</q> has its basis not
so much in justice as in the general good; and the state has
always considered itself entitled to attach to the <q>monopoly
of land,</q> which it accorded to the first possessor, all kinds of
limitations and conditions in the interest of the common good,
<pb n='266'/><anchor id='Pg266'/>
and sometimes to consider private property in land in the light
of a semi-public function.<note place='foot'>Thus <hi rend='italic'>P.
v. Arnim</hi>, in a work entitled <q>Ideen zu einer vollständigen
landwirthschaftlichen,</q> Buchführung, 1805, a treatise on <q>agricultural
book-keeping,</q> considers the farmer as a state official who should cultivate whatever
he believed in conscience, or what the state declared to be, most necessary.
He suggests that the state should subject all new purchasers of land to an
examination to ascertain whether they are rich and noble enough to act in
this way.</note> I may instance the feudal principles
of the latter portion of the middle ages, which are so far
removed from our ideas of private property in land; and yet,
of which many echoes are heard, even in our day, and are not
without their influence in practice. Thus, further, for instance,
even in England, the greater number of the poor-rates, of
taxes for the support of the established church, the maintenance
of public highways etc., are heaped upon the rent of
land. Many socialists have proposed to make the state the
sole proprietor of the soil,<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance,
<hi rend='italic'>Herbert Spencer</hi>, Social Statics, 1851, 114 ff., and to
some extent <hi rend='italic'>Spinoza</hi>, Tract. polit., VI, 2. There are now
in England several Land-Tenure-Reform-Associations, some of which would
<q>expropriate</q> all land and vest the title in the state. The programme of the
others embraces not only opposition to the right of primogeniture, to family
<hi rend='italic'>fidei commissa</hi> and the assertion of the right of freedom of trade
in land, and of a more democratic use of common lands, but also the appropriation by the
state of the increase in the rent of land which is caused by no labor of the landlord,
but solely by the increase of population and of the wealth of the community
or of the nation. <hi rend='italic'>Newmarch</hi>, on the other hand, very correctly
remarks, that since it is impossible to draw a line of demarkation showing the increase of
the value of land growing out of the increase of population etc., the owner
of land in making improvements would never know whether he made them
for himself or for the state. (Statist. Journal, 1871, 488 ff.) Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Wolkoff</hi>, Sur la Rente foncière, 1854, and <hi rend='italic'>H.
H. Gossen</hi>, Entwickelung der Gesetze des menschlichen Verkehrs (1854).</note>
sometimes adding the condition,
that the previous private owners should be compensated in
capital, when it would be at least supposable that private capital
might be enticed to cultivate it, if long and sure leases of
it were made. This would be a <q>good</q> demesne-husbandry,
extending over the entire country. We need only glance at
those kingdoms in which something analogous is to be found,
<pb n='267'/><anchor id='Pg267'/>
especially the despotisms of the east,<note place='foot'>In Congo and
on the gold coast of Guinea the land, in whole villages,
is tilled in common and the harvest distributed among the families per capita.
Wherever absolutism reigns, the prince is also the owner of all the land.
(<hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, III, 337.) In China, where the original tenure
in common of the land by all was broken through in the third century before Christ, all
the land of the country now belongs, strictly speaking, to the state; and the possessor
of land who permits it to go untilled is punished. (<hi rend='italic'>Plath.</hi> in the
phil.-hist. Sitzungsberichten der Münchener Akad., 1873, 793 ff.) In Corea,
private property in land is unknown; arable land is divided by the state according
to the number in a family. (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, IV, 633.) The example, on the
largest scale, of a country without private property in land is the British
East Indies. Compare the paper by <hi rend='italic'>Ch. Campbell</hi>, in the Essays
published by the Cobden Club; System of Land Tenure in various Countries, 1870.</note>
to divine that such a
system does not suffice to insure the real productiveness of a
nation's economy.<note place='foot'>The legal and economic difference between
property in land and property in capital is well defined by <hi rend='italic'>J.
S. Mill</hi>, Principles, II, ch. 2, 6. <q>The reasons
which form the justification, in an economical point of view, of property in
land, are only valid in so far as the proprietor of the land is its improver.
In no sound theory of private property was it ever contemplated that the
proprietor of land should be merely a sinecurist quartered on it.</q> He here
alludes specially to Ireland. The Fourierist, <hi rend='italic'>Considérant</hi>,
distinguishes accurately between the capital produced by labor and saving, and the
increase of the value of land caused by capital and labor, and its original value.
Only the first two elements can justly be made property. But as, for prudential
reasons, it is necessary to grant individuals the right of private property
in land, those who are not such proprietors must, as a compensation for
the common property which they have lost, be guaranteed the right to labor.
(Théorie du Droit de Propriété et du Droit au Travail.) In England, the
opinion that the compulsory support of the poor was introduced in compensation
to them for the establishment of private property in land has met
with considerable favor. <hi rend='italic'>Bishop Woodward</hi>, On the Expediency of
a Regular Plan for the Maintenance of the Poor in Ireland, 1775. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Eden</hi>, State of the Poor, I, 413. However, the poor rates, in a
country like England, are much more than an equivalent of what its soil could produce
without the assistance of capital.</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='268'/><anchor id='Pg268'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter VI. Credit.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter VI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter VI.</head>
<head>Credit.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section LXXXIX. Credit In General.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section LXXXIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section LXXXIX.</head>
<head>Credit In General.</head>

<p>
Credit<note place='foot'>The principal classical work on this subject is
<hi rend='italic'>Nebenius</hi>, Der öffentliche Credit, 1820, 2d ed., 1829. Previously,
<hi rend='italic'>Salmasius</hi>, De Modo Usurarum, 1639; and even
<hi rend='italic'>Demosthenes</hi>, adv. Dionysiod, 1283. Compare further
<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, in the Deutsch. Vierteljahrsschrift, No. 106, II,
289 ff.</note> is the power of disposition over the goods of
another,<note place='foot'>Compulsory loans by the state, for instance,
occupy an intermediate position between taxes and credit-operations,
properly so called.</note>
voluntarily granted in consideration of the mere promise
of the counter-value.<note place='foot'>Besides loans proper, all payments
in advance, or delays made in the payments of earnest-money, all leases and
lettings, which <hi rend='italic'>Courcelle-Seneuil</hi> calls
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>un médiocre degré de crédit</foreign>,
insurances and even all contracts for wages where the payment is delayed for a long
period of time, are species of credit. For a nice distinction between leasing
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Pacht</foreign>) and letting (<foreign
lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Miethe</foreign>), see <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>,
Tübinger Ztschr., 1860, 180 ff., and the Freiburger Univ. Programm.,
9. September, 1862. <hi rend='italic'>D. Wakefield</hi>, Essay upon Political Economy,
1804, 35, distinguishes between <q>loan-credit</q> which is given to a poor man in the
hope of his paying it by means of his labor, and <q>exchange-credit,</q> or credit
between property owners. <hi rend='italic'>Cieszkowski's</hi> definition:
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>le crédit c'est la métamorphose
des capitaux stables et engagés en capitaux circulants et dégagés</foreign>. (Du
Crédit et de la Circulation, 2d ed., 1847.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>,
Tübinger Ztschr., 1859, 568, every credit-operation is an exchange or sale of services,
one of which is to be performed in the present, and the counter-service of
the other party in the future. According to <hi rend='italic'>Macleod</hi>, it is
<q>a sale of debts.</q></note> As Franklin says: A good pay
is master of another man's purse. Hence, it is evident that
whoever would obtain credit must be believed to possess the
ability as well as the intention to fulfill his promise. Where
<pb n='269'/><anchor id='Pg269'/>
this belief is based simply on the opinion entertained of the
person of the debtor, we speak of personal credit,<note place='foot'>Personal
credit, of course, preponderates in commerce. Hence it is, that
in mercantile life, information concerning the personal status, reputation etc.
of his colleagues, plays so important a part with the merchant. This information
was made more accessible in England by the Lloyd institution. On
similar North American institutions, see <hi rend='italic'>Tellkampf</hi>, Beiträge, I,
51. Credit given on security is a modification, sometimes of personal and sometimes of
real credit. Compare, <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi>, the theory on bankers, brokers
etc.</note> in contradistinction
especially to the credit based on bailment, pledge,
hypothecation etc. The longer the time between the making
of the promise and the period fixed for its fulfillment, the less
certain is the latter, where the security is simply the person
of the debtor. It is chiefly in very uncivilized nations and
also in nations in their decrepitude, and during periods of anarchy,
and in despotisms, that personal security stands higher
than any other. The same is true, though for other reasons,
in very energetic civilized nations, where the people put a high
estimate on the element of labor in their economy, among
whose members legal security is, indeed, found, but where the
peculiar sensitiveness of speculation would be too much hampered
by the more sluggish nature of other credits; as, for
instance, in North America, and even in ancient Rome. Civilized
nations that have reached the stationary economic state,
on this account much prefer the greater security and the absence
of care which accompany non-personal credit.<note place='foot'>In despotisms,
credit is almost entirely personal. <hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi> Esprit des
Lois, L.V., 15. In New York, says <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, a merchant
with resources worth 200,000 francs, can do a business of from 1,000,000 to 1,500,000
francs. In Paris, under similar circumstances, the same man would find it difficult to
be credited to the extent of 500,000 francs. In Holland, two hundred years
ago, a person who hypothecated his property was obliged to pay a higher
rate of interest than in business (<hi rend='italic'>Becher</hi>, Polit. Discurs,
1763, 699), while the stationary period, one hundred years ago, made personal credit
extremely difficult. In Zurich, it was encouraged by the prohibition of loaning money
out of the country. (<hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, III, 40.)</note>
In estimating
the ability of the debtor to meet his promise, we must
take into account, especially, the disposable character of his
resources; otherwise it would be impossible to understand
<pb n='270'/><anchor id='Pg270'/>
why the merchant may so frequently obtain a loan on his
stock equal to its whole value, while the owner of land can
place it as security only to the extent of half its value.
</p>

<p>
Credit, on the whole, grows in importance with an advance
in civilization, and this is true especially of credit intended for
productive purposes. This is a consequence of the greater
division of labor which causes unfinished products to be put on
the market more and more frequently,&mdash;products which come
to have a value only after some time, but which, when that time
has elapsed, have present value. And, indeed, as the world
advances and civilization grows, it becomes much easier to
forecast the future with certainty. The future, also, then becomes
more a source of solicitude, and fixed capital, as a consequence,
plays a part which grows daily more important.
The limit to the development of credit is this: it is safe only
when the debtor invests his borrowed goods in the production
of, to say the least, their equivalent. This is why the personality
of the state, clothed with immortality and with a formally
boundless power of taxation, is so often seduced into engaging
in transactions of credit which are never self-discharged.<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, Nat. Œk., II, Aufl., 112.</note>
The social diseases of panics and of extravagant enterprises
stand in the same relation to credit that unbelief and superstition
do to true religion.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
according to the purpose which it is intended to subserve, divides
credit into production-credit (investment of loans in immoveable property
and in moveable property engaged in industrial operations), consumption-credit
and clearing-credit, or loans made to pay respited purchase and earnest
money, inheritances etc. (Kapitalismus und Socialismus, 552.)</note>
(<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>.)
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XC. Credit&mdash;Effects Of Credit.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XC.'/>
<anchor id="Section_90"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XC.</head>
<head>Credit&mdash;Effects Of Credit.</head>

<p>
As regards the effects of credit, we may remark, that it is as
powerless directly to produce new capital as is the division
of labor to produce new workmen. To every credit of the
<pb n='271'/><anchor id='Pg271'/>
creditor corresponds a debit of the debtor. As Turgot said:
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Tout credit est un
emprunt</foreign>.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Pinto</hi>, Traité de la
Circulation et du Crédit, 1771, considers loans bearing interest as new portions of the
resources of a country (p. 161), and that government loans not made in excess of its
powers are <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>une alchymie réalisée dont
souvent eux mêmes qui l' opèrent n' entendent pas tout le mystère</foreign>, (p. 338.)
Similarly and earlier, <hi rend='italic'>v. Schröder</hi>, F. Schatz-und Rentkammer,
238 ff; <hi rend='italic'>Mélon</hi>, Essai politique sur le Commerce, 1734, ch. 6;
next, <hi rend='italic'>Hamilton</hi>, Report to the House of Representatives on the
subject of Manufactures, Dec. 5, 1791; <hi rend='italic'>Von Struensee</hi>,
Abhandlungen, 1800, I, 259. See infra, § 210. More recently, <hi rend='italic'>St.
Chamans</hi>, Nouvel Essai sur la Richesses des Nations, 1824, 83 ff.
To some extent, even <hi rend='italic'>Dietzel</hi>, System der Staatsanleihen,
1855, 200. This is a dangerous error, since to every credit there is a set-off in
the nature of a debit of an equal amount; and the evidences of debt are nothing but claims
on the future revenue of the state. This was fully recognized by
<hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>, 291 ff. One of the principal advocates of that view
among writers on Political Economy is the vivacious, acute and practically not
unskillful, but sophistically superficial <hi rend='italic'>Macleod</hi>. (Elements
of Political Economy, 1858, ch. 3, Dictionary, 1862, v. Credit.) The creditor's
assignable right of demand, he considers immaterial capital. While bills of lading,
warehouse receipts, dock yard receipts etc., only represent goods, the bank note is
new goods. Even metallic money has only a credit-value, inasmuch as it can be used only to
effect exchanges. To the - of the creditor may correspond a + of the
debtor; but the latter is negative only in the sense that we speak of negative
electricity, a negative thermometrical degree. When an estate is leased, the
owner has, in his demand for rent, a vendible <emph>plus</emph>; but the lessee no
corresponding <emph>minus</emph>. (Not so. To the same extent that the proprietor has his
future payments on the lease discounted, the present sale-value of his estate
is diminished; or if it is not sold, the last party obtaining the discount has
made his available capital as much less by the advance as that of the lessor
has been increased.) The <q>discounting of the future,</q> that is, the apparent
capitalization of hopes, so much in vogue at the present time, may be a great spur to
production as it may also be to baseless extravagance.</note><note place='foot'>Many
theoreticians ascribe a direct creation of new capital to credit, in so
far as the capacity of the evidences of debt to circulate as a medium of exchange
effects a real saving, and permits the former very costly and intrinsically
valuable instruments of exchange to be used in some other way.
(§ <ref target="Section_123">123</ref>.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>,
Proposals for a secure and economical Currency (1817). <hi rend='italic'>J. S.
Mill</hi>, Principles, II, 174 and 36. <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, Commercial
Dictionary, art. Credit. And so it was in the first four editions of this book
of mine. But here, too, there is, immediately, only a transfer of already existing
capital. The person, for instance, who accepts a bank note for payment,
loans a part of his capital to the bank; and the advantage to the whole
community of such credit-operations consists chiefly in this: that so large
a quantity of cash-capital which lay idle in banks etc., may be used more
productively.</note><note place='foot'>When <hi rend='italic'>Roesler</hi> says that
credit is capital, the product of saving, and very serviceable in further production
(<hi rend='italic'>Grands.</hi>, 300), he confounds credit itself
with the foundations of credit, which are, indeed, in large part material or
moral capital.</note> But, on the other hand, credit
<pb n='272'/><anchor id='Pg272'/>
facilitates the transmission of the elements of production,
especially of capital, from one hand to another.<note place='foot'>Compare Discourse
on Trade, Coyn and Paper-Credit, London, 1697, 72 ff.</note> When,
therefore, the debtor employs the capital that he has borrowed,
more productively than the creditor would have done, the whole
country is a gainer; as it is a loser, on the contrary, when a
person engaged in industry advances to the idler, the frugal
man to the spendthrift, the solid man to the wild speculator.
In declining nations, where every new development hastens
decay, the latter alternative may be the prevailing one; and,
especially here, may the usurious giving of credit by the shrewd
to the simple lead to ruinous debtor-slavery. Among a vigorous
and energetic people, the former is apt to govern, as it
is only by the productive employment of the loans made that
they are permanently enabled to pay interest. Here credit is
an invaluable means, not only of putting idle capital in motion,
and of making active capital still more active, but especially of
concentrating capital, by which it may gain as much in productive
power as labor does by the coöperation of labor. This is
effected, very frequently, by means of joint-stock companies,
the principle of which recommends them especially in enterprises
where stationary capital is required rather than circulating
capital, and where capital generally plays a greater
part than labor; and where this labor can be subjected to provisions
which may be accurately laid down beforehand; as,
for instance, in the case of docks, insurance companies, banks,<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Buron</hi>, Guerre au Crédit, 1868. <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
Tüb. Ztsch., 1869, 296 ff. With a thorough understanding of its politico-economical
bearing, <hi rend='italic'>O. Michaelis</hi>, (Berliner V. Jahrsschr. 1863, IV, 121,)
says: The capital-value of my credit is not equal to the nominal value of my evidences
of indebtedness [notes etc.], but to the capitalized amount of the extra surplus which I
have obtained in my business by means of credit, after deduction is made of the
costs and of the risk-premium.</note>
<pb n='273'/><anchor id='Pg273'/>
etc. Banks, then, become real reservoirs of capital, provided
they are properly and judiciously established and managed;
real reservoirs which receive in one place the capital which is
superfluous elsewhere, in order to supply some other place
with that which is necessary to it. The more confidence increases,
the more are even the smallest driblets of capital
awakened from their slumbers, and made active and productive.
It is only by means of credit that the help of foreign
capital can be obtained for home production. Indeed, credit,
considered as an exchange of probable future goods against
actually existing goods, is one of the principal functions of
the temporal solidarity of the economy of nations. (<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>.)
Without credit, there would be very little place for speculation
proper.
</p>

<p>
We may see how the possibility of giving and receiving credit
promotes wealth, by contemplating the poorer classes, whose
poverty, both as cause and effect, is very closely related to the
absence of credit. And here we have a suggestion of the reverse
to the bright side of the picture of credit, analogous to
that mentioned in § <ref target="Section_62">62</ref> of the coöperation of labor,
viz.: that it tends to intensify inequality among men. The man who
is distinguished by the amount of his wealth, or by his position
is naturally known to a much wider circle than others
are. From which it follows, that he may, by the way of credit,
increase his power, already so much greater in the economic
world, by a much larger multiplier.<note place='foot'>We shall, in the books to follow
this, inquire with great care, what are the means best calculated to remedy this
dangerous tendency. We need only remark here, that it is to be found in a judicious
association of small capitalists, and also in the capitalization, so to speak, of
personal qualities. A well organized society of work-men, without capital, may indeed
obtain credit, as for instance, the Schultze-Delitsch societies, the Russian
<hi rend='italic'>artel-schnicks</hi> (market-aid societies) etc. prove.
(<hi rend='italic'>Frühauf</hi>, Die russ. Artels in <hi rend='italic'>Faucher's</hi>
Vierteljahrsschrift, 1868, I, 106 ff.) We may also mention the
greater credit accorded to a land-owner the moment he becomes a member
of a land-loan association as compared with what he could obtain before he
had joined it. The popular belief of the ancient Egyptians afforded them a
very great instrument of credit in the pledging of the remains of their ancestors.
(<hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, II, 136.)</note> Hence, it need not
<pb n='274'/><anchor id='Pg274'/>
surprise us, that the great obtain credit from those in a lower
position, at least as frequently as they give them credit in turn.
</p>

<p>
On the side of the creditor, the possibility of making loans
is a powerful incentive to frugality. Were there no credit,
those who were not in a condition to employ their capital productively
would make savings only within very narrow
limits.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>B. Hildebrand</hi> is of opinion that the
Political Economy of the future may be characterized as credit-economy, in the same way
as the Economy of the present may be called money-economy, and that of the past as
barter-economy of barter. (National Œkonomie der Gegenwart und Zukunft, I,
276 ff.) <hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> view is correct in so far as that, with
every advance in civilization, credit comes to have absolutely and relatively an ever
increasing importance, although in the middle ages, especially under feudal forms
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Lehensformen</foreign>), there were
numberless operations in credit. Otherwise, however, <hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi>
three kinds of economy are, by no means, coördinated.
While barter and purchase through the instrumentality of money, in every
instance, entirely exclude each other, it is impossible to imagine a credit-transaction
of which the promise of a barter-performance or of a money-performance
does not constitute the base. During a <q>money-economical
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>geldwirthschaftlichen</foreign>) period</q>
[i.e., one during which money is the medium of exchange, and not notes; and when barter
does not obtain.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Translator</hi>.]
the service rendered by money as a medium of exchange may, for the most
part, be supplanted by credit. Money, as a measure of value, still remains
the substratum of credit itself. (See <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi> in the Tübinger
Ztschr., 1860, 154 ff.; and in the Freiburger Programm, 9 Sept., 1862, 19.) Earlier yet,
<hi rend='italic'>A. Wagner</hi>, Beitr. zur Lehre von den Banken, 1857 ff. Among the
most practical propositions of Saint Simonism is that of a <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>système genéral des banques</foreign>,
intended to administer all the goods of the nation, and to loan them to individuals
engaged, in production. (<hi rend='italic'>Bazard</hi>, 205 ff.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCI. Debtor Laws.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCI.</head>
<head>Debtor Laws.</head>

<p>
Private credit is always conditioned, and in a great many
ways, by the situation of the whole nation's business; in other
<pb n='275'/><anchor id='Pg275'/>
words, by their politico-economical situation. It is especially
in the higher stages of civilization, that one bankrupt may
easily drag numberless others down with him; and where the
laws are bad or powerless, not even the wealthiest man can
predicate his own solvency for any length of time in advance.
One of the most important conditions of credit is the certainty
that, if the debtor's good will to meet his obligations should
fail, it shall be supplied by the compulsory process of the
courts. Hence, the importance of a judicial procedure, at
once impartial, enlightened, prompt and cheap.<note place='foot'>It is destructive
of credit to allow the debtor to await several decrees or
judgments before his liability is established; to allow him, on easy terms,
delays, reversals of judgment, the costs of the case etc. The term within
which a creditor might bring in his claim before the meeting of creditors in
the Amsterdam Boedel-chamber was formerly thirty-three and a third years.
(<hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Darst. der Handlung, Zusatz, 82.) In the
presidency of Bengal there were, in 1819, 81,000 cases in arrears, and in 1829,
140,000. Westminister Review, XIX, 142.</note> The more
vigorous the laws relating to debt are in preventing dishonesty
on the part of the debtor, the more advantageous are they to
honorable and honest debtors. Adam Smith has rightly said,
that in countries in which creditors are not completely protected
by the courts, the honorable man who borrows money
is in the same condition as the notoriously dishonest man or the
spendthrift, in better governed countries. He finds it more difficult
to borrow and is obliged to pay a higher rate of interest.<note place='foot'>And yet
<hi rend='italic'>Melon</hi> is of opinion that the state should favor the debtor as
much as possible. (Essai politique sur le Commerce, ch. 12, 18.) This was
the view entertained on this subject by the older practitioners. In Bengal,
the <hi rend='italic'>dhura</hi>, a species of <q>judgment of God,</q> in which
the party who could hold out longest against hunger was declared the victor, was the
only means to compel a debtor to pay his debt. As a consequence, the Bengal peasant
could not borrow money at less than 60 per cent. per annum. Edinburgh
Review, XXII, 67. On the damages attending the credit-laws and credit-courts
of Russia, by which all foreign goods are rendered exceedingly dear,
see <hi rend='italic'>v. Sternberg</hi>, Bemerkungen über R., 100 ff. In a country
in which a great many powerful personages are above the laws, an incorporated loaning
bank may be an indispensable necessity. (<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, II,
p. 23 ff.) In Naples, even as recently as 1804, no debtor could be arrested during the
last six months of the queen's pregnancy. At a previous period, one might
fail in business there and escape all punishment by exposing the hindermost
part of himself in a nude state publicly before a column of the
<hi rend='italic'>Vicaria</hi>. (<hi rend='italic'>Rehfues</hi>, Gemälde von Neapel,
I, p. 203 seq., 222.) In Schwytz, the rate of interest is so high, because the law
allows the debtor to pay his creditor, whether the latter will or not, in articles of
household furniture, clothes etc., estimated at a very high value.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatsw. Untersuchungen, 202.) It has now become quite
usual in the United States, on account of the many delays granted to the debtor by
<q>democratic</q> laws introduced there, instead of mere mortgage, to give full warranty
deeds when capital is loaned. By this means, the creditor is in danger, when misfortune
overtakes him, to see himself compelled to let his property go at one-fourth of its
value.</note>
Rigorous debtor laws, on the other hand, diminish in
<pb n='276'/><anchor id='Pg276'/>
the whole nation the amount of <q>bad debts,</q> that is, a not insignificant
portion of the cost of production. They, at the
same time, promote, as far as it is in the power of laws to do
it, national honor and the mutual confidence of man in man.
The excellence of their debtor laws, in their most flourishing
period, was one of the principal elements which contributed to
make Athens and Rome of such importance in the history of
the world.<note place='foot'>See the Heliast oath in <hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi>,
adv. Timocr., 746. The Roman system of credits in the time of Polybius was much better
than the Carthaginian. <hi rend='italic'>Polyb.</hi>, VI, 56, XXXII, 13.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCII. History Of Credit Laws.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCII.</head>
<head>History Of Credit Laws.</head>

<p>
In the history of laws relating to credit, we may distinguish,
in a great many countries, three stages of development.
</p>

<p>
A. The laws, in the first stage, are very severe. In the
Germanic middle age the insolvent was disgraced. He became
the slave of his creditor (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>zu Hand und
Halfter</foreign>), who might imprison him, fetter him (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>stöcken und blöcken</foreign>), and
probably kill him. A Norwegian law allowed the creditor,
when his debtor would not work and his friends would not
ransom him, to take him before the court, and <q>to lop off from his body what
part he will, above or below.</q><note place='foot'>Sachsenspiegel, III, 39.
<hi rend='italic'>J. Grimm</hi>, Deutsche Rechtsalterthümer, 612 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Dahlmann</hi>, Dänische Gesch., II, 245, 339.
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Russ. Gesch., III, 357. On slavery for debt among
the Malays, see Ausland, 1845, No. 157.</note> To judge of
<pb n='277'/><anchor id='Pg277'/>
these provisions correctly, it is necessary to bear in mind the
many ways in which family resources were at this time bound
and tied up, and not forget <q>the power of defiance in these
iron natures.</q><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Beaujour</hi>, Tableau
du Commere en Grèce, II, 176.</note> (<hi rend='italic'>Niebuhr</hi>.)
</p>

<p>
B. The canon law introduced milder principles. Gregory
the Great had already prohibited the holding on to the body
of the debtor.<note place='foot'>C. 2 X. De Pignor. An appropriate
provision in a priestly government. <hi rend='italic'>Diodor.</hi>, I,
79.</note> On this account, during the latter portion of
the middle ages, it was customary to stipulate by contract that
the provisions of the ancient law should govern in this matter,
to submit to imprisonment etc.<note place='foot'>Staying in a place
by the debtor until the creditor is satisfied, and other
degrading stipulations, which, however, were prohibited by the police regulations
of the Empire in 1548, art. 17.</note> The influence of the Roman
law made it gradually more usual, in the case of insolvent
debtors, to demand no more from them than the assignment
of their property for the benefit of their creditors. This, however,
led to numerous frauds; and these became more frequent
in proportion as the laws governing the property of parties
while the marriage relation existed between them, and as executions
against landed property etc. were defective.
</p>

<p>
C. Hence, in more highly civilized times, there has been a
return to the severity of earlier ages. Persons engaged in
commerce, especially those whose capital is so volatile, and to
whom time is a thing so precious, can scarcely dispense willingly
with personal imprisonment for debt. Hence, legislation
on bills of exchange, sanctioned especially by imprisonment
of the person, plays a very important part in the commercial
cities of the seventeenth century, as it did, naturally, much
earlier in Italy and the Netherlands.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Marten's</hi>
Ursprung des Wechselrechts, 1797. Statuta Mediol., 1480, fol.
238 ff. The municipal law of Florence unconditionally imprisoned the
father or grandfather for the debt of the son, when the latter engaged in industrial
pursuits with their consent. (Stat. Flor., I, 201.) In Bologna, the
brothers of a bankrupt who had constituted one household with him were
held responsible for his debts. (Statuti dell' Università de Mercantati della
Città di B., 1550, fol. 110.) The law of Geneva excluded from all positions of
honor the son who had left his father's debts unpaid. <hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi>,
E. des Lois, XX, 16. The consequence was, that among the higher classes not a
creditor lost anything for centuries. (<hi rend='italic'>K. L. v. Haller</hi>,
Restauration der Staatswissenschaften, VI, 519.) Compare the <q>Nurenberger
Reformation</q> of 1479, fol. 61 and 68 of the edition of 1564.</note> Modern laws in
<pb n='278'/><anchor id='Pg278'/>
many cases punish the bankrupt whenever an examination of
his books, kept after approved methods, does not demonstrate
his innocence.<note place='foot'>Compare the R. P. O. of 1548,
art. 22. And so, by the Code de Commerce, III, 4, I, even the simple bankrupt in
contradistinction to the fraudulent bankrupt is punished, and every person unable to pay
his debts is declared a <emph>simple</emph> bankrupt, who, among other things, has made
excessive household expenses, or lost considerable sums by play etc. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Sully</hi>, Mémoires, Livre XXVI, who declares it to be his most
wholesome law, that fraudulent bankrupts should, like thieves, be punished with death,
and that all their fraudulent assignments, gifts, etc., should be declared void. Further,
Ordonn. de Louis XIV., sur les Failletes, art. 11; <hi rend='italic'>J. de Wit</hi>,
Mémoires, 77 ff; <hi rend='italic'>v. den Heuvel</hi>, Sur le Commerce de la Hollande,
110 ff. Frederick William I., in 1715, threatened with the galleys all light-headed
bankrupts, and, in 1723, all those who, knowing their insolvent condition, should effect
further loans. <hi rend='italic'>Mylius</hi>, Corp. Const. March. II, 2, 31, 40. For
China, see <hi rend='italic'>Davis</hi>, The Chinese, I, 247 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Gr.
Soden</hi>, Nat. Oek., III, 231, demands that, in case of doubt, the guilt of the
bankrupt should always be presumed.</note> The great facility of fraudulent bankruptcy,
where commerce has attained a high degree of development
and complication; the absence of honor shown in engaging in
speculation for one's own gain with a stranger's capital, and
without the real owner's knowledge; the comparatively small
number of blameless and irreproachable bankruptcies,<note place='foot'>In England only
one-tenth of the number of bankrupts are considered innocent.
<hi rend='italic'>Elliot</hi>, Credit the Life of Commerce, 1845, 50 ff.</note> certainly
justify these provisions.<note place='foot'>The <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>contrainte par corps</foreign> of debtors was abolished in
France in 1792, but restored in 1797. Even <hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi> remarked that
since slavery had ceased there was no further fear (?) that the poor would be oppressed
by imprisonment for debt. (Sur le Prêt d' argent, § 31.) According to
<hi rend='italic'>Droz</hi>, the question is not one of weighing <q>freedom</q> against
<q>miserable money,</q> but the deprivation of a few of that freedom and the
non-fulfillment of obligations entered into, that is against the destruction of public
confidence.</note><note place='foot'><p>A similar development among the Greeks:
</p>
<p>
A. Rigorous slavery for debt, which Kypselos moderated at Corinth.
(<hi rend='italic'>Pausan.</hi>, V. 17, 2), and Solon abolished in Athens.
(<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Sol., 15. <hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi>,
de fals. Legat., 412.)
</p>
<p>
B. The reckless creation of debts as seen in Aristophanes; while outside
of Athens slavery for debt lasted yet a long time. (<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>,
Griech. Privatalterth., § 57, 20.) In the time of Demosthenes, the merchant in arrears
in the payment of his debts was cast into prison, and the bottomry-debtor
who deprived his creditor of his security might be punished with death,
(<hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi> adv. Pharm., 922, 958), and this although the
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>cessio honorum</foreign> was introduced.
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, § 70, 3. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi>,
Vectigg., 3, <hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi> adv. Apat., 892; adv. Lacrit., and adv.
Dionys. In Corinth, the state superintended expenses made by parties. This was part of
its credit-policy. (<hi rend='italic'>Athænæus</hi>, VI, 227.) For a remarkable
Rhodian law relating to debts, see <hi rend='italic'>Sext.</hi> Emp., Hypot. I, 149.
</p>
<p>
In Rome:
</p>
<p>
A. The chief characteristic of the ancient law in this matter was the
eventual sale of the person of the debtor on the getting of the loan (<foreign
lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>nexum</foreign>); the power of the creditor to put
the <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>addictus</foreign> to death or to sell
him in foreign parts; finally, the <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>in
partes secanto</foreign>, in the concourse of creditors. Without these rigorous
provisions, the borrower might easily have evaded his debts, by the emancipation of his
son and turning over his property to him. (<hi rend='italic'>Niebuhr</hi>, Rom. Gesch.,
II, 770 ff; <hi rend='italic'>Savigny</hi> in the Abb. der Berliner Acad., 1833.
<hi rend='italic'>Zimmern</hi>, Gesch. des röm. Privatrechts, III, 131 ff.)
</p>
<p>
B. Later, we find nothing of the execution of the debtor, or of the sale of
his person; but he might be compelled to do slave labor for his creditor
without any protection against ill-treatment. Slavery for debt was restricted
by the Lex Poetelia. (<hi rend='italic'>Niebuhr</hi>, III, p. 178;
<hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>, III, 494.) The Prætorian
law introduced the custom of putting the creditor in possession of the goods
of the debtor, with power of sale, which proceeding rendered the debtor infamous.
See several passages in <hi rend='italic'>Walter.</hi>, Röm Rechtsgesch, 763 ff;
<hi rend='italic'>Tertull.</hi>, Apol., 4; Tab. Herac. I, 115 ff. Later, Cæsar's Lex
Julia permitted the honest debtor to escape imprisonment by the assignment of his goods.
</p>
<p>
C. The moneyed oligarchy which prevailed in Rome caused the adoption
of exceedingly severe measures against delinquent debtors.
(<hi rend='italic'>Plut.</hi>, Lucull., 20. <hi rend='italic'>Cic.</hi>,
ad. Att. V. 21, VI.), although its members themselves incurred
debts in the most reckless manner. Cæsar, in the year A.C. 62, excluding
his active (<hi rend='italic'>activen</hi>), owed debts to the amount of 25,000,000
sesterces; M. Antonius, in the year 24, 6,000,000; in the year 38, 40,000,000;
Curio, 60,000,000; Milon, 70,000,000. (<hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>, Römische
Geschichte, III, 486.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Gellius</hi>, XX, 1, XV, 14.</p></note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='279'/><anchor id='Pg279'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCIII. Means Of Promoting Credit.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCIII.</head>
<head>Means Of Promoting Credit.</head>

<p>
One of the most efficient means of promoting credit consists
in legislation intended to dry up the source of bad debts,
by placing obstacles in the way of reckless or usurious credits
<pb n='280'/><anchor id='Pg280'/>
for objects of luxury or pleasure, to bad customers.<note place='foot'>Whenever
a new shop-keeper, who sells goods on monthly credits, settles
in a district, the number of poor persons invariably increases.
(<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, Commercial Dictionary.) The
ruinous credit given by the Jews to the Westphalian peasants
begins with an account for the goods which they have
succeeded in pressing upon them, after five or six years have elapsed. The
Jew seldom sues accounts at law; but he besieges the debtor and discovers
where his last head of cattle and his last little supply of provisions are to be
found. As he is willing to accept everything that has any value, sometimes
in payment of arrears, and sometimes in payment for some new piece of trash, he is
sure to obtain his dues in the end, but not until his victim, who is sunk deeper
and deeper in the abyss of debt by every <q>accommodation,</q> is entirely ruined.
(<hi rend='italic'>Schmerz</hi>, Rheinish-Westphäl. L.W., 396 ff.)</note> But the
application of these laws should be clear and simple as to
their matter, and require no inquiries, relating to the person,
impracticable for a business man to make.<note place='foot'>In the
lower and middle stages of civilization, we find a multitude of
laws by which minors, students etc., but especially land-owners are limited
to a minimum of credit, which, however, varies very much with the person,
and is subjected to a number of embarrassing forms, the consent of a third
person, for instance etc. (Compare Bayerische L.O. von 1553, fol. 83.)
Such laws, however, give as much room to the play of dishonesty as they
take away from that of want of reflection.</note> Thus, for instance,
a short period of limitation established by statute in
the matter of advances made for ordinary money-claims is
a beneficial restraint, as well on the creditor as on the debtor,
since it prevents the accumulation of a multitude of small
debts which almost imperceptibly but at the same time irresistibly
overpower the debtor under their weight.<note place='foot'>On the municipal regulations
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Städteordnungen</foreign>) of the 14th
and 15th centuries, which compelled Jewish creditors especially to have their evidences
of indebtedness redeemed within from every two to five years, see
<hi rend='italic'>Stobbe</hi>, Juden im Mittelalter, 129. Compare further the Würtemberg
L. O. of 1515, Statut. Ferrar, ed. 1650, lib. II, rub. 37, 289. According to the other
provisions of the laws in North America, some book accounts were required
to be sued on within six and others within seventeen years.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, Gerchichte und Erdberschreibung der v. Staaten, II,
247, 298.) The Prussian law of March 31, 1838, provides a period of limitation of three
years for all ordinary commercial debts. A similar law was passed in the Kingdom of
Saxony, in 1846. In London, there has been found a great number of hatters,
tailors, boot and shoe dealers etc., whose books showed credits of more
than £4,000, most of them not to exceed over £10. How much of all this
must be lost entirely, and how that loss must increase the sums paid for
boots, shoes and hats by the prompt payer! (<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, v.
Credit.) We find, even in Athens, that the period of limitation was shortened in the
interest of credit, and that in the case of minors, it did not exceed five years.
(<hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi> adv. Nausim., 989.) Security for a debtor not over one
year. (<hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi>, adv. Apatur., 901.) The prohibition of Zaleukos
to issue any evidences of debt whatever goes much farther.
(<hi rend='italic'>Zenob.</hi>, Proverb. V, 4.)</note> Another
<pb n='281'/><anchor id='Pg281'/>
efficient means is associations of business men to circulate lists
of bad debtors, and to prosecute their own demands in common.<note place='foot'>Compare
the report of the Dresden Handelskammer, 1864, 11.</note>
On the other hand, experience has shown that imprisonment
for debt, as a means of enforcing a creditor's claim,
where the amount of the debt is very small and such as only
very poor debtors are apt to incur, is of little service. It is
even injurious, because a great many sellers would rely on
that means of compelling payment in the future instead of demanding
it immediately, as they should do in the interest both
of themselves and of their customers. As a rule, it is only
rich creditors who can resort to it with success, a class who
compel payment through this means by wringing it from the
debtor's relations more frequently than from the debtor himself.
The working out of debts in correctional institutions
seems, for the same reasons, to fail of its object, since even
well governed institutions scarcely cover their current expenses from the
income derived from this source.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>A. Mayer</hi>,
in <hi rend='italic'>Faucher's</hi> Vierteljahrsschrift, 1865, IV, 65.</note> The
inequitable character of imprisonment for debt lies in this, that
it punishes the unfortunate debtor as severely as it does the
malicious one. It must be clearly distinguished from the imprisonment
recognized by the courts as a punishment for reckless
or fraudulent bankruptcy.<note place='foot'>We learn from
the debates in the English parliament of February 9, 1827, that,
in two years and a half, there were, in London and its environs,
70,000 cases of imprisonment for debt, the costs of which were from £150,000
to £200,000. In 1831, there were in one debtors' prison 1,120 prisoners, who
owed on an average £2 3s. 2d. (<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, l. c.) There
was, in 1792, a case of a woman who, for a debt of £19, remained in prison 45
years, and others like it. (See <hi rend='italic'>Archenholtz</hi>, Annalen, IX,
87 ff; X, 169 ff, XIII, 125.) In England in 1844, arrest for sums less than £19 was
prohibited. <hi rend='italic'>Johnson</hi> had already proposed a similar provision.
(Idler, 1758, Nos. 22 and 38.) Imprisonment for debt was abolished in France, England and
Austria in 1867; in the North German Confederation, on the 29th of May, 1868, but arrest
for security's sake was retained. <hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi> finds fault with nearly
all laws in the premises, because they attack the person of the debtor rather than his
personal property, and his personal, rather than his immovable, property. He
would have all this just the contrary of what it is. The first interferes with
the very source of wealth, the productive power of labor; the second causes
goods to be sold much below their value. Neither of these evils attends the
last. (<hi rend='italic'>N. Principes</hi>, I, 250.)</note> We must pass a judgment
<pb n='282'/><anchor id='Pg282'/>
similar to that on the imprisonment of the person of the debtor
on the seizure of his wages not yet due, so far, at least, as an
amount absolutely necessary to save himself and family from
want, is not excepted. The prohibition of such seizure, beyond
this, would amount to a declaration that all workmen
without capital, even the best, should be considered unworthy
of credit.<note place='foot'>A law of the North
German Confederation allows the pledging of future
wages, only in the case of public officers, and those holding permanent places
in the service of private parties, whose salaries are over 400 thalers per annum.
The original draft had excepted only the things necessary to workmen
and those directly depending on them; while the law as passed makes the
prohibition general. This was undoubtedly done for the convenience of employers
as well as of courts; as for instance in the circuit of Dortmund,
there were, in one year, 10,000 cases in which wages were garnisheed. (Annalen
des N.D. Bundes und Zollvereins, 1869, 1071 ff.) But the recklessness
of those workmen whose wages are below the average, might have been
just as well guarded against without dragging those whose wages are above
the average down to their level, if a distinction had been made between production-credit
and consumption-credit, and the latter had been limited by providing
that no suit should be instituted for supplies made to public houses,
taverns etc.</note> We may also include in this category
such laws as except from execution the necessary tools of a
tradesman, since to deprive him of them would be to prevent
<pb n='283'/><anchor id='Pg283'/>
his employing even his labor to satisfy<note place='foot'>In the second book
of <hi rend='italic'>Moses</hi>, 22, 25 ff., and the fifth, 24, 6. A very old
Norman law provides that in actions for debt, execution should not issue
against effects of the debtor which are indispensably necessary to him to
maintain his position, such as the horses of a count or the armor of a knight.
(Dialog. de Scaccario.) Magna Charta extended this provision so as to include
the agricultural implements and cattle of the peasantry. The moment
these laws, in consequence of a false principle of humanity, except anything
but what is absolutely necessary, they injure credit. Thus, for instance, in
Brazil, a law of 1758, providing that nothing immediately employed in
or directly necessary to the production of sugar should be seized on execution,
caused great injury to the production of sugar. (<hi rend='italic'>Koster</hi>,
Travels in B., 1816, 356 ff.)</note> his creditors'
claims.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCIV. Letters Of Respite (Specialmoratorien).'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCIV.</head>
<head>Letters Of Respite (Specialmoratorien).</head>

<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Special letters of respite</hi> (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Specialmoratorien</foreign>) are a suspension
of the laws relating to debt, made in favor of an individual.
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Quinquennalia.</foreign>)
They were intended to protect not only the debtor, but also the aggregate of creditors
against the short-sighted severity of one of their number. They were
wont to be given especially when the debtor showed that immediate
execution would not only have the effect of ruining
himself, but of sending his creditors away empty handed;
while, if time were given him, he would be able to satisfy
every one.<note place='foot'>§ 2, Cod. De Prec. Imper. Off., I, 19.
The diets of the Empire had granted such letters in the fourteenth
century. (<hi rend='italic'>Wachsmuth</hi>, Europ. Sittengesch.,
IV, 690.) They were granted, as a rule, only with the previous knowledge
of the Emperor, by the police ordinances of the Empire of 1548, art. 22.</note>
But the granting of such letters has, in recent
times, been prohibited<note place='foot'>So in Austria,
Saxony, Brunswick, the electorates of Hesse and Baden.
In Prussia, they could be granted only after a juridical decree to that effect;
and an appeal to a superior court was allowed to reverse or affirm it. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Mittermaier</hi> in the Archiv. für civilist. Praxis, XVI,
and also <hi rend='italic'>P. de la Court</hi>, Aanwysing der politike Gronden
en Maximen van Holland etc., 1669, I, ch. 25. Nürnberg obtained as a privilege,
in 1495, that no <hi rend='italic'>moratorium</hi> should be valid as against
its citizens. (<hi rend='italic'>Roth</hi>, Geschichte des Nürnb. Handels,
I, 86.)</note> in nearly all countries as arbitrary, and
<pb n='284'/><anchor id='Pg284'/>
as a species of cabinet-justice. Nor should the granting of
them be compared with the pardoning power. In the case of
a pardon, the offended State forgives. In this case it sacrifices
the unquestionable right of one party to the very doubtful advantage
of another. Where such letters are granted in great numbers, credit cannot
fail to suffer. <q><foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Quinquinnellen gehören
in die Hollen!</foreign></q>
</p>

<p>
Yet in troublous times, when a great many debtors are insolvent
at the same time, the question of modifying the laws
relating to debt, temporarily, has been mooted. It has been
urged on such occasions, that it would be a matter of enormous
difficulty to treat, <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>lege artis</foreign>,
thousands as bankrupts at once; that thousands
of businesses would have to be closed, their
stocks cast upon the market at mock prices, and their employees
thrown out of employment. But, if certain privileges
were to be accorded to all who should declare themselves unable
to meet their obligations before a certain day, it would
be known, at least, that the others were in a solid condition;
and this would have the effect to strengthen the credit which
had been before universally shaken. We must, however,
leaving all cases of abuse out of the question, remember, that
a really unrightful favor, granted to the debtor, may possibly
entail the ruin of his creditor. Besides, the uncertainty of
the law would have a much worse effect on credit than uncertainty
as to the personal status of individuals.<note place='foot'>Compare
the discussions in the French National Assembly, in the month
of August, 1848. It is much less disadvantageous in times of great commotion,
when all business is brought to a stand still, to extend the time in which
bills of exchange etc. are payable. Such a measure prevents a number of
bankruptcies which the real balance of debts due to one and owing by him
does not render necessary.</note> Where, as is
the case generally in inferior stages of civilization, debtors and
creditors form two distinct classes, the question of right is not,
indeed, changed, but there is a solid basis afforded for the
political admeasurement of opposing interests. In another
<pb n='285'/><anchor id='Pg285'/>
work I have shown how, after great wars, land owners, who
became involved in debt, have been protected against capitalists.
(See <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Nationalökonomik des Ackerbaues,
§ 137, ff.)<note place='foot'>In the persecution of the Jews in the middle ages,
the so-called <foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Brief-todten</foreign>
(letter-killing), or the destruction of titles, was very common. In
1188, the French government released all crusaders from the payment of interest
on their debts, and granted them an extension of three years' time to
pay off the principal. (<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, Hist. des Français, VI, 82.)
Similar compulsory measures were provided against the Jews and usurers in 1223 (Ibid,
VI, 539 ff.); and in 1299 (Ordonnances, I, 1331), on the formal request of the
nobility. (Ordonnances, II, 59.) Again, in 1594, there was a release of one-third
of the interest on all national and private debts. (<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>,
XXI, 318.) The general <hi rend='italic'>moratorium</hi> of the Milanese for a term of
eight years, introduced in 1251, after their war with France, was of an essentially
different character. (<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, Geschichte der italienischen
Republiken, III, 155.) The same is true of the general <hi rend='italic'>indult</hi>
granted by Philip II. in Belgium. (<hi rend='italic'>Boxhorn</hi>, Disquisitt.
politicæ, 241 ff.)</note><note place='foot'>The abolition or release of debts,
so frequent in ancient revolutionary times, reminds us, in
many ways, of the crises precipitated in modern times
by paper money and produced by the state. The ancestors of Alcibiades
and Hipponikos laid the foundation of an immense fortune, in Solon's time,
by purchasing land in large quantities with money borrowed from several
citizens, a short time before the abolition of debts.
(<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Sol., 15.)</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='287'/><anchor id='Pg287'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Book II. The Circulation Of Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Book II.'/>
<head type='sub'>Book II.</head>
<head>The Circulation Of Goods.</head>

<pb n='289'/><anchor id='Pg289'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter I. Circulation In General.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter I.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter I.</head>
<head>Circulation In General.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCV. Meaning Of The Circulation Of Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCV.</head>
<head>Meaning Of The Circulation Of Goods.</head>

<p>
The more highly developed the division of labor is, the
more frequent and necessary do exchanges become. While
the hermit engaged in production thinks only of his own wants,
and the mere housekeeper of the wants of his household, the
man who is part of a nation and who plays a part in its general
economy, must bear in mind the <hi rend='smallcaps'>MARKET</hi> in which goods
of one kind are exchanged against goods of other kinds. The
greater, more various and more changeable the conditions of
this market are, the greater are the intellectual faculties demanded
to engage in it successfully, and to the advantage of
everybody concerned in it.<note place='foot'>Enormous
consumption of wax in the churches of the middle ages. In
the cathedral of Wittenberg alone, a short time before the Reformation,
more than 35,000 pounds of wax candles etc. were burned yearly. At the
same time, honey was generally used instead of sugar. How much more
important, therefore, at that time must bee-culture have been, considered
from the point of view of circulation as compared with what it is to-day.
And so in Catholic countries, a difference in the external manifestation of religion
causes the relative importance of the consumption of fish to increase
and decrease. In 1803 there was little demand in France for ivory crucifixes,
rosaries etc. In 1844, the demand for them and for <hi rend='italic'>prie-Dieu</hi>
for the bed-room etc. was increased. (<hi rend='italic'>Mohl</hi>,
Gewerbwissenschafliche Reise, 101.) To engage successfully in the sale of sugar in
Persia, it is necessary to know that in that country it is liked only in little
hat-shaped lumps, which are used only as semi-voluntary gifts; and that, in such case,
custom fixes the number of lumps. (<hi rend='italic'>Steinhaus</hi>, Russlands
commercielle etc. Verhh., 151.) In the Levant, workmen prefer bars of iron which are
small and of varied form because they find it difficult to manipulate the large ones.
The English bear this in mind much better than the Russians.
(<hi rend='italic'>Steinhaus.</hi>) A merchant sending wood to Southern France must be
acquainted with the form of the staves used in the manufacture of barrels there. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, VI, 2, 2.</note> Goods intended to be exchanged
<pb n='290'/><anchor id='Pg290'/>
are called commodities. By the circulation of commodities is
meant their going over from one owner to another.<note place='foot'>The
circulation of goods compared to the circulation of the blood: by
<hi rend='italic'>Mirabeau</hi>, Philosophie Rurale, ch. 3.
<hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Sur la Formation etc. § 69.
<hi rend='italic'>Canard.</hi>, Principes, ch. 6.</note> Among
the principal causes of circulation, we may mention the difference
in the nature and civilization of countries and peoples,
the distinction between city and country, the division of people
into classes etc.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Eiselen</hi>,
Volkswirthschaftslehre, 98 ff. If in ancient times commerce
played a much less important part than it does among the moderns, it was, as
<hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi> says, because the whole commercial world
was then more uniform in climate and the character of its products than it
is now. (Esprit des Lois, XXI, 4.)</note> The rapidity of circulation depends, on the
one hand, on the quantity of commodities, and on the other, on
the degree to which the division of labor has been carried. In
both respects it is, therefore, an important indication of the
wealth of the nation, and of the world.
</p>

<p>
Different commodities have very different degrees of capacity for circulation
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Circulationsfähigkeit</foreign>),
that is, of certainty of finding purchasers, and of facility of seeking purchasers.
The smaller, compared with its value, the volume and weight
of a commodity are; the longer and more conveniently it can
be stored away; the more invariable and well-known are its
value in use and value in exchange: the more readily does it
go from one place to another, the more easily is it transmitted
from one period of time to another and from the possession of
one person into the possession of another. Thus, for instance,
the precious metals circulate more rapidly than industrial products;
<pb n='291'/><anchor id='Pg291'/>
these in turn more than raw material,<note place='foot'>Of the
successive steps, sheaves, corn, flour, bread,&mdash;flour has the greatest
capacity for circulation. And, indeed, the last operation of labor on a
great many goods, because of their consequent more narrowly specialized
utility, is accompanied by a decrease in their capacity for circulation. As an
illustration, we may mention ready-made clothing as compared with cloth.
The capacity for circulation of a commodity is very much advanced when
the demand is wont to increase with the supply, as is the case with gold and
silver, but not with learned books, optical instruments etc. Many commodities
have but little circulating capacity, because no one desires to purchase them but at
first hand. See <hi rend='italic'>Menger</hi>, Grundsätze, I, 245 ff.</note> and
immovable property circulates least rapidly of all. An improvement in the
means of transportation naturally increases the capacity of circulation
of the entire wealth of a people, and especially of those
commodities which were not before transferable as well as
of those of which the cost of transportation constituted a peculiarly
large component part of the price.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Knies.</hi>,
Die Eisenbahnen und ihre Wirkungen, 1853, 79.</note> The greater the
capacity for circulation of any kind of goods, the greater is
the power of control of its owner in the world of trade. If
we compare two men, each of whom possesses a million of dollars,
but one of whom has that million in money and the other
in land, we shall find that the former is able, for present purposes,
such as loaning to the state in case of need, aiding a
conspiracy etc., to command resources much more readily and
effectively than the latter. Under the ordinary circumstances
of a nation's economy, we find that the owner of money is
very seldom in want of bread, fuel or clothing, whereas very
many owners of other property may be in want of money.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Schmitthenner</hi>, I, who calls attention and with reason to the
importance of loans on chattel mortgages. But <hi rend='italic'>Berkeley</hi>, Querist,
No. 265, remarks that a squire with a yearly income of £1000 can, <q>upon an
emergency,</q> do less good or evil than a merchant with £20,000 ready money.</note>
True, resources which may, so to speak, take the offensive
most energetically, offer less resistance to unforeseen misfortune.
The possessor of such resources is in a condition to lose
his all on the turn of a single die. As civilization advances,
the circulating capacity of a nation's wealth increases.<note place='foot'>A
very important difference between Russia and England.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='292'/><anchor id='Pg292'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCVI. Rapidity Of Circulation.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCVI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCVI.</head>
<head>Rapidity Of Circulation.</head>

<p>
With an advance in a people's public economy, we find an
increased rapidity of circulation connected, both as cause and
effect. Every improvement, every thing which shortens the
process of production, must facilitate and accelerate the circulation
of commodities. And so, the perfecting of the means
of transport of commodities, of the media of exchange and of
credit, an increase in the number of middlemen who make it
their business to purchase in order to sell again. On the other
hand, the more rapid the circulation of wealth, the more can
it promote production. The more rapidly, for instance, the
manufacturer of cloth exchanges his wares for money, the
more rapidly may he employ the money in the purchase of
new tools and the hiring of new labor; and the sooner may he
appear in the market with new cloth. It is here precisely as
it is in agriculture, which is more productive where the seed returns
several times in a year (several crops<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>,
Handbuch, I, 273 ff. There is also a useless circulation which is
not calculated to promote the division of labor, but to employ idle time or
idle capital, as in the case of games of hazard, speculation in stocks, wheat
etc. Even impoverishing consumption may produce rapidity of circulation,
as in Germany during the war years 1812 and 1813. (<hi rend='italic'>F. G. Schulze</hi>,
N. Œkonomie, 1856, 667.) Relying on this fact, <hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi> (1752) on
Public Credit, Discourses, No. 8, argues in favor of the old opinion, that all
circulation is wholesome and to be encouraged. <hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>,
Traité des Grains, I, 6, went so far as to laud war because it accelerated the
circulation of wealth. On the necessity of a <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>circulation sans repos</foreign>, see ibid., II, 10. In a
similar way <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>, Trade and Money, 1705, and
<hi rend='italic'>Dutos</hi>, Réflexions Politiques sur le Commerce,
over-valued the circulation of wealth as such. Concerning the Mercantile
System, see § 116. <hi rend='italic'>Darjes</hi>, Erste Gründe der Cameralwissenschaft,
1768, 531. And even <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, I, 29, 32 ff., III, 96,
who in other places nearly always overlooks real production and sees only the circulation
of money caused thereby. Thus he calls the poor when they are helped in money, and spend
it, useful members of society! (IV, 32, 39. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>v.
Struensee</hi>, Abhandlungen, 1800, I, 282 ff., 400 ff.)</note>) to the hand of
<pb n='293'/><anchor id='Pg293'/>
the peasant than it is where this happens only once. The
nearer the members of the commercial organism are to one
another, the more rapid is circulation wont to be. Hence, it
is more rapid in industry than in agriculture; in retail trade
than in wholesale; in large cities than in the country; among a
dense population than among a sparse population.
</p>

<p>
The <emph>regularity</emph> of circulation increases with economic culture.
Its concentration at large terminal points, its interruption
by bad seasons of the year, belong to the lower stages of
the political economy of a people; although bad harvests,
floods, wars, revolutions etc. may, at any time, lead to a sluggishness
or to an arrest of circulation.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCVII. Freedom Of Competition.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCVII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_97"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCVII.</head>
<head>Freedom Of Competition.</head>

<p>
But it is especially the freedom of circulation that increases
with an advance in civilization, and this advance, like the two
preceding, first affects the home or inland circulation. Freedom
of competition, the freedom of commerce and industry,
technical expressions used to designate freedom in general in
the domain of a nation's economy, is the natural conclusion
drawn from the principles of individual independence and of
private property. Hence its development is as slow as the
development of these, and attains its full growth only in highly
cultivated nations, their colonies and dependencies. In very
low stages of economic development, the circulation of goods
is hampered by the absence of legal security; later, by privileges
accorded to a great number of families, corporate
bodies, municipalities, classes, etc., and later yet by the mighty
guardianship which the state exercises by its power of legislation
and even of education.<note place='foot'>As, for instance, happened in
France in 1577, when all commerce, and in 1585 all industry, were declared
to be <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>de droit domanial</foreign>.
Louis XIV. was of opinion that the king was absolute master of all private
property of priests and people. (Mémoires histor. de Louis XIV., II, 121.)
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Duclos</hi>, Mémoires, I, 14 ff.</note>
Each one of these epochs constitutes
<pb n='294'/><anchor id='Pg294'/>
the end of the preceding one, and is milder than it was.
Finally comes the period of complete freedom, when every
man is permitted to manage his own affairs even with injury
to himself, provided the injury is confined to himself.
</p>

<p>
The later times of the Roman Empire are the best illustration
of how, with the decline of the conditions which must precede
freedom of competition, that freedom itself decays.<note place='foot'>Compare
Theod. Cod., V, 9, 1; Just. Cod., X, 19, 8; XI, 47, 21, 23; XI, 50,
51, 52, 55, 58. How full the really classic period of the Roman jurists was
of the idea of freedom of competition, we see in <hi rend='italic'>Paullus</hi>:
L. 22, § 3, Dig. XIX, 2. The provisions concerning <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>lœsio enormis</foreign> appear first in the time
of Diocletian. (Just. Cod., IV, 44, 2.)</note>
</p>

<p>
Freedom of competition unchains all economic forces, good
and bad. Hence, when the former preponderate, it hastens
the time of a people's grandeur, as it does their decline where the
latter gain the upper hand.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Benjamin Franklin</hi>
says that the freer the form of government is, the
more the people show themselves in their true aspect. Ancient Rome, with
the early development of its rational disposition, soon learned to favor freedom
of commercial intercourse. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>, Römische Geschichte,
I, passim. This was, certainly, an element of its greatness, but also of the
proletarian evils developed in it an early date, and which were weighed down
only by the absolute growth of the state and the development of its economic
interests during centuries.</note> We may say of economic freedom
what may be said of all other freedom, that the removal of
external constraint can be justified and produces the greater
good of the greater number only where a stern empire over self
takes its place. Without this it would not prevent or avoid idleness,
usury or over-population. Freedom must not be simply
negative. It must be positive. If on account of the immaturity
or over-maturity of a people, there be no sturdy middle
class among them, unlimited competition may become what Bazard
calls a general <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>sauve-qui-peut</foreign>
(let the devil take the hindmost); what Fourier designates as a
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>morcellement industriel</foreign>,
and a <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>fraude commerciale</foreign>;
what M. Chevalier denominated <q>a battle-field on which the little are devoured by the
<pb n='295'/><anchor id='Pg295'/>
big;</q> and in such case, as Bodz-Reymond says, the word
competition, meaning simply that each one is permitted to run
in whatever direction he may see a door open to him, is but
another and a new expression for vagabondizing. But here
the evil does not lie in too great competition, but in this, that
on one side there is too little competition.<note place='foot'>Nor
must it be forgotten that competition raises prices as well as lowers
them. The expressions higher price and lower price denote only different
sides of the same relation. <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi> is of opinion that
our present breathless competition is characteristic only of a period of transition
prolific in new inventions, a competition soon to be followed by peace. (Cours, II,
450 ff.)</note> The opposing principle
of competition is always monopoly, that is, as John Stuart
Mill says, the taxation of industry in the interest of indolence
and even rapacity; and protection against competition is
synonymous with a dispensation from the necessity to be as
industrious and clever as other people.
</p>

<p>
A protection of this nature, sufficiently effective to attain its
end, would not fail to arrest the efforts of those who had accomplished
something, and even to turn them backward.
That freedom of competition is a species of declaration of war,<note place='foot'>Ἀγαθὴ
ἔρις: Hesiod., Opp., 10 ff.</note>
among men considered as producers, is certain; but, at the
same time, it makes all men considered as consumers members
of one society, in which all the members are equally interested,
a fact too much overlooked by socialists.<note place='foot'><q>Whoever
speaks of competition suppresses the existence of a common
aim,</q> says <hi rend='italic'>Proudhon</hi>, although he adds, after
<hi rend='italic'>Bileam's</hi> way, that to cure the
evils of competition by competition, is as absurd as to lead men to liberty
by liberty, or to cultivate the mind by cultivation of the mind.</note> It is the
means especially by which the greatest and ever increasing
portion of the forces of nature are raised to the character of
the free and common property of the human race.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>, Harmonies économiques, ch. 10.</note> <q>Man is
not the favorite of nature in the sense that nature has done
everything for him, but in the sense that it has endowed him
with the ability to do everything for himself. The right of
freedom of competition may, therefore, be considered both
<pb n='296'/><anchor id='Pg296'/>
the protection and the image of this provision of nature.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Zachariä.</hi>)<note place='foot'>If
all classes were protected against competition, no class would derive
any advantage from it, since a <q>universal privilege</q> is an absurdity. If only
certain classes or individuals are protected, it is done at the cost of all others.</note>
</p>

<p>
The person, therefore, who claims or asserts an exception
from the rule of free competition, has to prove his position in
every individual case, since the burthen of proof is on him.
But the duty of interference on the part of the state is positively
pointed out where any interest common to the whole
people is not in a condition to assert itself; and negatively,
when the custom which hitherto had prevented an undoubted
abuse has grown too weak to continue to perform that service.
In <emph>both</emph> regards I would call attention to the protection of factory
children against the concurrent selfishness of their parents
and masters.<note place='foot'>The question should not be
formulated thus: <q>Caprice or rule?</q> but <q>Rule of morals,
or rule of law?</q> <hi rend='italic'>Schmoller</hi> against
<hi rend='italic'>v. Treitschke</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi>
Jahrbb.</note><note place='foot'><p>Concerning the arguments by which
the commercial restrictions of the middle ages were defended, see below. They were,
for the most part, well founded for the age in which they were advanced. A judicious
education will often be compelled to provide limitations, but always with the intention,
by this means, of making possible a really greater independence. Thus the
current of commerce may be too weak in a poor and thinly settled country
in order that supply and demand should always and everywhere meet and be
satisfied. Under such circumstances, their artificial concentration at certain
points is among the most efficient means of promoting the economy of the
whole people. The policy of freedom of commerce was recommended even
in the seventeenth century by <hi rend='italic'>J. Child</hi>, by
<hi rend='italic'>North</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Davenant. W. Roscher</hi>,
Zur Geschichte der englisch. Volkswirthschaftslehre, 65 ff., 85 ff., 113 ff., 142
ff. And earlier yet, in Holland, by <hi rend='italic'>Salmasius</hi>, De Usurus,
1638, 583 and <hi rend='italic'>de la Court</hi>. Compare Tübinger Ztschr., 330 ff.
Thus <hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi> says: <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>Il n'y avait qu'à laisser faire la nature et la libertê,
qui est le commissionaire de cette même nature</foreign>. (Factum de la France, 1707,
ch. 5.) See, also, Dissertation sur la Nature des Richesses, ch. VI; Détail de
la France, 1697, II, ch. 13; Tr. des Grains, II, 8. For the most part dictated by a
reaction against Colbertism.
</p>
<p>
See further, <hi rend='italic'>Mélon</hi>, Essai Politique sur le Commerce, 1734, ch.
2. <hi rend='italic'>M. Decker</hi>, Essay on the Causes of the Decline of Foreign
Trade, 1744, 31 ff, 106 ff. <hi rend='italic'>J. Tucker</hi>, Essay on the advantages
and disadvantages which respectively attend France and Great Britain with regard to
Trade, 1750. <hi rend='italic'>Forbonnais</hi>, Elémens du Commerce, 1754, I, 63.
<hi rend='italic'>Genovesi</hi>, c. I, 17, 3, is of opinion that at least in case of
doubt, commerce stood more in need of freedom than of protection.
<hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, in his Meditazioni, goes still farther. The Physiocrates,
with their <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laissez aller</foreign> and
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>laissez faire</foreign> recommend competition
as the best means to increase the net income of a people. According to
<hi rend='italic'>Dupont</hi>, 147 ff, éd. Daire, the province of legislation is
confined to declaring the laws of nature. His motto is: <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>liberté and propriété</foreign>. <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi> asks that the state should do only three things: insure protection against
foreign states, the administration of justice at home, the establishment and maintenance
of certain institutions of advantage to the whole community, but
which private interest could not establish for want of means to cover the expenses
attending them. (Wealth of Nations, V, ch. I, 2.) Hence he demands (III, ch. 2) the
abolition of all kinds of <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>fidei
commissa</foreign>, of royalty in mines (I, ch. 11, 2), of all corporate and exclusive
privileges, of all protective duties etc. (IV, ch. I ff), but especially of the colonial
policy hitherto in vogue. (IV, ch. 8.)
</p>
<p>
The attacks of the Socialists on freedom of competition were begun by
<hi rend='italic'>Fichte</hi>, Geschlossener Handelsstaat, 126, in which it is called a
robber-system or system of spoliation. He would have the state have more solicitude for
human industry than if men were so many swallows. See further,
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, N. Principes, passim, who everywhere demands the
protection of the government for the weaker. <hi rend='italic'>Fourier</hi>, N. Monde
industriel, 396, who thinks that <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>le
monopole général</foreign> is always a <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>preservatif contre le commerce</foreign>.
<hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>, Harmonies économiques, ch. 10, has a very valuable
refutation of these follies. Recently, <hi rend='italic'>Rodbertus</hi>, Hildebrand's
Jahrbücher, 1865, II, 272, is of opinion that <q>social individualism</q> has ever had
in history the task of dissolving decaying societies, as, for instance, under the
Cæsars.</p></note> <hi rend='italic'>Supra</hi>, § <ref target="Section_39">39</ref>.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='297'/><anchor id='Pg297'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCVIII. How Goods Are Paid For.&mdash;The Rent For
Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCVIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_98"/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCVIII.</head>
<head>How Goods Are Paid For.&mdash;The Rent For Goods.</head>

<p>
Payment for goods (§ <ref target="Section_1">1</ref> ff.) of any kind can be made only in
other goods.<note place='foot'>Whoever would sell to others must purchase of them.
(<hi rend='italic'>Child.</hi>, Discourse of Trade, 358.) Similarly
<hi rend='italic'>Temple</hi>, Works III, 19, and <hi rend='italic'>Becher</hi>, Polit.
Discurs, 1547. This view seems to have become the national one first in Holland.
Compare also <hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, 71 and <hi rend='italic'>Mirabeau</hi>,
Philosophie rurale, 1763, ch. 2.</note><note place='foot'>We often hear it said:
<q>nothing sells because there is no money.</q> But
the real cause here is, in most instances, not a want of money, but a want of
other goods which might serve as a counter-value. In bad times, for instance,
there is many a weaver who would consider himself fortunate, even
if he could get no money for his cloth, to obtain instead, meat, bread, wood,
raw material etc. If money only were wanting, that might easily be as favorable
a symptom in commerce, as when there are not enough shops,
steamers etc., to carry on the business of the country. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>North.</hi>, Discourses upon Trade, 1691, 11 seq., but
especially <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say's</hi> celebrated theory
of Markets, traité I, ch. XV.</note> Hence, the greater, more varied, and the better
<pb n='298'/><anchor id='Pg298'/>
adapted to satisfy wants, production is, the more readily
does any product find a remunerative market; more readily in
England, for instance, in spite, or rather, because of, the great
competition there, than in Greenland or Madagascar. From
this it follows that, as a rule, a person is in a better condition
to purchase more goods in proportion as he has produced
more himself. According to official accounts, the average
value of a harvest of wheat and potatoes in Prussia was formerly
332,500,000 thalers. In the year 1850, however, it was
only 262,000,000 thalers. As a matter of course, the country
people in that year could not purchase from the cities as much
as in ordinary years, by a difference of 70,000,000 thalers.
This illustrates how every class of people, who live by finding
a free market for their products, are interested in the prosperity
of all other classes. As Bastiat says: <q>All legitimate interests
are harmonious.</q> The more flourishing a city, the
better off are the towns around it, which furnish it with provisions;
and the richer these towns, the more flourishing is
the industry of the city which ministers to their wants.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt's</hi> observations as to how, in Spanish America, agriculture
in the vicinity of the mines increases and decreases with the wealth of the
latter. (N. Espagne, III, 11 ff.) See also <hi rend='italic'>Harrington</hi> (ob. 1677),
On the Prerogative of a Popular Government, I, ch. 11; <hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>,
Nature du Commerce, 16. And so <hi rend='italic'>Stein.</hi>, Lehrbuch, 122 seq., points
out how great enterprises produce especially for the consumption of the small
householder without capital, and how, therefore, the flourishing condition of the one
determines that of the other.</note> It is
important that this fact should be borne steadily in mind,
especially in times of advanced civilization, when the feeling
that we all have interests in common, is too apt to grow dormant.
Nothing can better serve to awaken it again when it
has become so. A nation, says Louis Blanc, in which one portion
of the people is oppressed by another, is like a man
<pb n='299'/><anchor id='Pg299'/>
wounded in the leg. The healthy limb is prevented by the
sick one from performing its functions.<note place='foot'>Those
indeed who live by the spoliation of others, as robbers, deceivers
etc. are interested in the economic prosperity of the latter only so long as
their spoliation of them is not endangered. Only to this extent can it be
claimed with <hi rend='italic'>Fr. List</hi> that the nobility of the Middle Ages, in
obeying the selfish calculation which led to the oppression of the peasantry, engaged in
as bad a speculation as a manufacturer of our day would who should feed
his steam-engine with nothing but saw-dust or scraps of old paper. The
cities of the middle ages had a much more undoubted economic interest in
the emancipation of the peasantry as a class than the nobles or the clergy.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section XCIX. Freedom Of Competition And International
Trade.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section XCIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section XCIX.</head>
<head>Freedom Of Competition And International Trade.</head>

<p>
Does the same rule apply to the commercial intercourse of
nations? Where the feeling that all mankind constitute one
vast family is stronger than that of their political and religious
diversity; where the sense of right and the love of peace have
extinguished every dangerous spark of ambition for empire
and all warlike jealousy; where, especially, their economic
interests are rightly understood on both sides, a real conflict
between the interests of two nations must always be a phenomenon
of rare occurrence, and an exception to the general
rule, which should not be admitted until it has been clearly
demonstrated to exist.<note place='foot'><p>Such
exceptions there certainly are, even if it were not true <q>that the
most godly cannot rest in peace unless he is acceptable to his ungodly neighbor.</q>
Nations that furnish the same products as we do may, indeed, <q>spoil
our market,</q> just as at home the selfish shoemaker may desire the prosperity
of all wearers of shoes, that is of all other industries, but not that of all
other producers of shoes. The view that long prevailed, that one man's gain
was always some other man's loss (<hi rend='italic'>Th. Morus</hi>, Utopia 79, ed.
Colon. 1555; <hi rend='italic'>Baco.</hi>, Sermones fideles, cap. 15;
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>quid-quid alicubi adiicitur, alibi
detrahitur</foreign>; <hi rend='italic'>M. Montaigne, Essais</hi> I, 21: <foreign
lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>les prouficit de l'un est le dommage de
l'autre</foreign>) prevailed much longer in international affairs where observation is
much more difficult than in national affairs; although even here, <hi rend='italic'>P.
de la Court</hi>, Maximes politiques, 1658, contrasts the economic interest of Holland
with that of the rest of the Netherlands and prefers it to theirs. Even
<hi rend='italic'>Voltaire</hi> says: <q>The desire of the greatness of the Fatherland
includes the desire of evil to our neighbor. Evidently no country can gain except what
another loses.</q> (Dict. philosophique, v. Patrie.) Compare, however, the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>peut-être</foreign> in his Histoire
de la Russie, I, 1, on the occasion of the English-Russian treaty of commerce.
Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, Della Moneta, I, 1, IV, 1;
<hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, Opuscoli, 335, and recently <hi rend='italic'>v.
Cancrin</hi> who says that <q>in every-day life, property is acquired only
at some other person's expense.</q> (Weltreichthum, 1821, 119. Oekonomie der
menschl. Gesellschaft, 1845, 23.) The cosmopolitan view
(<hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi>, Cyrop., III, 2, 17. Hier., 10) which prevails in Adam
Smith's school was introduced by <hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>, Essays, 1752, On the
Jealousy of Trade. <hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, Encyclopédie, v. Grains, 294, ed.
Daire; <hi rend='italic'>A. Smith</hi>, Theory of moral Sentiments, 1759, p. 6, sec.
2, ch. 2. <hi rend='italic'>Pinto</hi>, Lettre sur la Jalousie de Commerce, 1771, and
<hi rend='italic'>J. Tucker</hi>, Four Tracts on commercial and political Subjects,
1776, 34 ff and 42 ff. <q>The system of states exercises no influence whatever on the
world's commerce.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>, Handbuch I, 11.) More recently,
<hi rend='italic'>R. Cobden</hi>, in his Russia,
Edinb., 1836, among others argued, that the conquest of Turkey by the Russians
would be useful to England, because then more (?) English products
would probably be sold there. Russia would become no stronger thereby, as
conquests always injure the conqueror more than they benefit him. The
idea of European equilibrium is therefore a chimera, because no state can
be prevented from having an internal growth, as great as may be. Thus, in
the summer of 1853, we heard the London Times sometimes preach that
every cannon-shot fired by the English at the Russians might kill an English
debtor or an English customer. The Venetians entertained a similar view
at the beginning of the fifteenth century. Compare <hi rend='italic'>M. Sanudo</hi>
in <hi rend='italic'>Muratori</hi>,
Scriptores, XXII, 950 ff. See above, § <ref target="Section_12">12</ref>.
</p>
<p>
Moreover, Malthus had recognized that there were natural rivalries between
nations which produced exceptions to Tucker's laws. (Principles,
Preface.) Similarly <hi rend='italic'>Garve</hi>, in Cicero's Pflichten (1783),
III, 146 ff.</p></note> Highly cultivated nations generally
<pb n='300'/><anchor id='Pg300'/>
look upon the first steps in the civilization of a foreign people
with a more favorable eye than they do on the subsequent progress which
brings such nations nearer to themselves.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>B.
Franklin</hi>, Works, vol. III, 49. <hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi> claims for
all civilized nations the right of interfering with the governments of other nations
with whom they have or might have commercial relations, and of insisting that they
shall have a good government under which commerce may freely develop.
(N. P. VII, ch. 4.)</note>
Yet the realization of the above mentioned conditions on all
sides is something so improbable, unpatriotic <q>philanthropy</q>
something so suspicious,<note place='foot'>As for instance when the <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>ami des hommes</foreign> says that he felt towards an Englishman
or a German as he did towards a Frenchman with whom he was
not acquainted. <hi rend='italic'>Mirabeau</hi>, Philosophie rurale, ch. 6.</note>
the greater number of mankind
<pb n='301'/><anchor id='Pg301'/>
so incapable of development except under the limitations of
nationality, that I should observe the total disappearance of
national jealousies only with solicitude. Nothing so much
contributed to the Macedonian and Roman conquests as the
cosmopolitanism of the later Greek philosophers.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance,
the Stoic, Zeno: <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch.</hi> De Alex, fort, 1, 6.</note>
</p>

<p>
As all commerce is based on the mutual dependence of the
contracting parties, we need not be surprised to find international
commerce so dependent. But this dependence need
not, by any means, be equally great on both sides. Rather
is the individual or the nation which stands in most urgent
need of foreign goods or products the most dependent. Hence,
it seems that, in the commercial intercourse between an agricultural
and an industrial people, in which the former furnish
food and the raw material of manufactures, and the latter
manufactured articles, the latter are the more dependent. In
case of war, for instance, it is much easier to dispense for a
long time with manufactured articles than with most articles
of food.<note place='foot'>Compare even <hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>,
Inquiry, 274 ff.</note> However, this condition of things is very much
modified, for the better, by all those circumstances on which
the dominant active commerce of a nation depends. It is, for
instance, much easier for the English, on account of their
greater familiarity with, and knowledge of the laws and nature
of commerce, on account of their business connections, their
capital, credit and means of transportation, but more particularly
on account of the greater capacity of circulation of their
national resources, to find a new market in the stead of one
that has been closed to them, than it is for the Russians with
their much more immoveable system of public economy.<note place='foot'>How
well, for instance, the English sustained Napoleon's continental
blockade, the evils produced by which were intensified by several bad harvests.
Its worst time did not, indeed, coincide with that of the struggle with
the United States. The ancient Athenians, during their contest with Philip
of Macedon, considered the question of the supplies from the Bosphorus
etc. as one of life and death. But this can be looked upon only as a cogent
proof of the small development which their commercial talents had received
at the time. How easily might they not, according to our ideas, have obtained
corn from Sicily or Egypt.</note> It
<pb n='302'/><anchor id='Pg302'/>
is true, however, that an effective blockade, which excluded
both of these nations from all the markets of the world, would
be much more injurious to England than to Russia.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='303'/><anchor id='Pg303'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter II. Prices'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter II.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter II.</head>
<head>Prices.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section C. Prices In General.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section C.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section C.</head>
<head>Prices In General.</head>

<p>
The price of a commodity is its value in exchange expressed
in the quantum of some other definite commodity, against which
it is exchanged or to be exchanged. Hence, it is possible for
any commodity to have as many different prices as there are
other kinds of commodities with which it may be compared.<note place='foot'>According
to the acute analysis of language made by <hi rend='italic'>F. J. Neumann</hi>,
Tübinger Ztschr., 1872, 317 ff., the word <q>price</q> has reference to an actual
purchase or sale, while the expression <q>value in exchange,</q> generally called
simply value, is based upon a valuation, or intimates in a general way that an
object possesses value; value in exchange is, so to speak, the average of several
price-determinations. Price, according to <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, is the
external consequence of value in exchange, a means of representing the latter. (N. Œk.,
III, Aufl., I, 218.) Only through the difference between value in exchange
(universal possibility) and price (special reality) is the <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>laesio enormis</foreign> of the jurists possible.
(<hi rend='italic'>Schmitthenner</hi>, Staatswissenschen, I, 416.)</note>
But whenever price is spoken of, we think only of a comparison
of the commodity whose value is to be estimated, with the
commodity which, at that time and place, is most current and
has the greatest capacity for circulation. (Money.)<note place='foot'>By
market price, <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>prix courant</foreign>,
is meant the money-price of commodities, determined by competition.</note> When
two commodities have changed their price-relation to each
other, it is not possible, from the simple fact of such change
of relation, to determine on which side the change has taken
place. If we find that a commodity A stands to all other
commodities, C, D, E etc., in the same relation as to price as
<pb n='304'/><anchor id='Pg304'/>
before, while commodity B, compared with the same, has
changed its place in the scale of prices, we may infer that
B, and not A, has left its former position.<note place='foot'>A
problem very similar to that of the motion of bodies in space.</note>
</p>

<p>
The words costly and dear, as contradistinguished from
common and cheap, both indicate a high price. We, however,
call a commodity costly whose price, compared with
that of other similar commodities, is high. On the other
hand, we call a commodity dear when we compare it with
itself, and with its own average price in other places and at
other times.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>, Handbuch, 50
ff., calls those commodities costly which are obtained
only at a high cost of production, and dear, those whose price is above the
cost of production.</note>
</p>

<p>
In individual cases, the price of a commodity is determined
most usually, and at the same time most superficially, by custom;
people ask and pay for a commodity what others have
asked and paid for it. If we go deeper and inquire what
originated this customary price and may continually change
it, we come to the struggle of interests between buyers and
sellers. And if science would analyze the ultimate elements
of the incentives to this struggle and the forces engaged in it,
it is necessary that it should keep in view the entire economy
of the nation, and even all national life.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CI. Effect Of The Struggle Of Opposing Interests On
Price.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CI.'/>
<anchor id="Section_101"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CI.</head>
<head>Effect Of The Struggle Of Opposing Interests On
Price.</head>

<p>
No where in the public economy of a people are the workings
of self-interest so apparent as in the determination of
prices. When the price of a commodity is once fixed by the
conflict of opposing interests,<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Canard</hi>,
Principes d'Economie politique, ch. 3. Almost simultaneously,
<hi rend='italic'>H. Thornton</hi>, 1802, Paper-Credit of Great Britain.</note>
the self-seeking of every individual
dictates that he should thereby gain as much as possible
<pb n='305'/><anchor id='Pg305'/>
of the goods of others, and lose as little as possible of his own.
In this struggle, the victory is generally to the stronger, and
the price is higher or lower, according to the superiority of
the buyer or seller.<note place='foot'>See <hi rend='italic'>Jackson's</hi>
Account of Morocco, 284, for cases in which, in the Sahara,
when the burning winds of the desert had dried up the water in the leathern
bottles of the caravan, a drink of water cost from $10 to $500.</note>
But who, in such case, is the stronger?
Political or physical superiority can turn the balance one way
or another only in very barbarous times, and especially in
times when legal security is small.<note place='foot'>The North
American aborigines very frequently consent, in their exchanges,
to take any offer made to them by their equals, however insufficient
it may be, because they fear revenge. <hi rend='italic'>Schoolcraft</hi>,
Information etc., II, 178. As to the effects of cunning, the Tungusi, when
they get a glass of brandy from the Russians, grow almost idiotic, and give away
their goods at mock-prices in drink. (<hi rend='italic'>v. Wrangell</hi>, Nachrichten,
I, 233.) In the higher stages of civilization, on the other hand, very distinguished
people are, by no means, privileged because of their position, in the struggle for
prices. In modern times, claims (<foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>reclamen</foreign>) have taken the place of greater physical or
political power. Compare <hi rend='italic'>E. Hermann</hi>, Leitfaden der
Wirthschaftslehre 1870, 91 ff.</note> As a rule, it is the party
in whom the desire of holding on to his own commodities is
strongest, and who is least moved by the want of the wares
of others. As in every conflict, confidence in self, sometimes
even unbounded confidence in self, is an important element of
success. A party to a contract of sale or barter, who considers
his immediate position decidedly stronger than that of
the other party, will scarcely depart from his demands. Hence
it is, that in exchange, one party so frequently holds back
until the other has expressed his terms.<note place='foot'>Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi> says, that before one of the two parties has expressed his
want to buy or to sell, the pans of the scales are in equilibrium. The first
that speaks breathes on one of them, and it drops. (Dialogue sur le Commerce
des Bleds, 1770, No. 6.) This has been verified in a striking manner
in California, where the most valuable commodities were often purchased at
auction at the lowest prices, while when purchased from merchants and
even the most wretched shopkeepers, they were sold enormously dear.
(<hi rend='italic'>Gerstäcker</hi>, in the Allg. Zeitg., May, 1850.) Thus there were
harvested in France, in 1817, 48,000,000 hectolitres of wheat, valued at 2,046,000,000
francs, in 1820, 44,500,000 hectolitres valued at 895,000,000 francs.
(<hi rend='italic'>Cordier.</hi>) This vast difference in price existed, because in
1817, the whole world was still trembling under the impression made by the failure of the
crops in 1816, while in 1820, the feeling of comfort and security caused by the rich year
1819, still prevailed. Low prices at forced sales under decree etc. See below,
§ 5. That travelers are so frequently taken advantage of in effecting
changes of money is explainable partly by their urgent wants, which are well
known to the opposite party, and partly by their supposed ignorance in the
matter. And so, at auction sales, out-bidding one another has something
very seductive in it for ignorant or hot-headed purchasers.</note> How different is the
<pb n='306'/><anchor id='Pg306'/>
price of the same pieces of land which a new railroad enterprise
is compelled to pay and the prices it would get for them,
from the adjoining owners, in case of the dissolution of the
company.
</p>

<p>
But the struggle to raise prices or to lower them, which is
always going on, undergoes modifications of every description
among all really commercial nations, partly through the influence
of the public conscience, which brands as inhuman
and blameworthy the spoilation of the opposing party by acts
which the laws do not reach. And this consideration by the
public conscience is all the more severe in proportion as real
competition in the article sold is wanting.<note place='foot'>It
was considered immoral by his contemporaries, when William the Conqueror
introduced the custom of farm-letting to the highest bidder. (<hi rend='italic'>A.
Thierry</hi>, Conquête de l'Angleterre, II, 116, éd. Bruxelles.) It is repugnant
to poetic and delicate minds to think that everything has a price exactly
fixed. (§ 2.) I need only refer to the picture of Helen which Zeuxis
exhibited for money, which act of his was characterized, by his cotemporaries,
as a species of prostitution. <hi rend='italic'>Val. Mac</hi>, III, 7.
<hi rend='italic'>Ælian</hi>, V, 4, IV, 12. <hi rend='italic'>Socrates</hi>
judgment on the payment of the sophists. <hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi>, Memor., I,
6, 13.</note> But the chief modification
in this struggle is produced by the fact, that where
civilization has advanced farthest, every commodity is offered
for sale by a great many and wanted by a great many.<note place='foot'>Competition
has only a negative influence on prices, inasmuch as it modifies
the extreme operation of the other grounds of their determination.
<hi rend='italic'>Thornton</hi>, Paper Credit. <hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>,
Revision, 1811, I, 74 ff, 241 ff.</note> As
soon as several seek the same object, there naturally results a
rivalry among them, which induces each to attain the desired
end, even by the making of greater sacrifices than others.
<pb n='307'/><anchor id='Pg307'/>
The greater the supply of a commodity is, as compared with
the demand for it, the lower is its price; the greater the demand
as compared with the supply, the higher it is. And,
indeed, there is question here, not only of the <emph>mass</emph> of things
supplied or demanded, but also of the <emph>intensity</emph> of the supply
and demand.<note place='foot'>The expression, <q>intensity of demand,</q> in
<hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Principles, ch. 2, sec. 2. As early a writer as
<hi rend='italic'>Sir J. Stewart</hi> calls attention to the difference between
large and high and small and low demand. A high demand will always
raise the price, as when, for instance, two wealthy virtuosi compete at an auction.
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Paucorum furore pretiosa</foreign>,
as Seneca says. An English penny of the time of Henry VII, once sold, on such an
occasion, for £600. In 1868, at the Lafitte auction, seven bottles of wine sold to
Rothschild at 235 francs a piece after the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Maison dorée</foreign> had offered 233.
(N. freie Presse, Dec. 17, 1868.) A
great demand has frequently no result but to increase the supply, and the
price rises only in so far as the demand is too sudden to permit a parallel
growth of the supply. (Principles, Book II, ch. 2, 10.) The present price
of tea could not remain unaffected, if ten different private merchants, competing
one with another, or the agent of a privileged commercial society,
should send orders to China for an equal quantity of tea.
(<hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, Meditazioni, IV, 8 ff.)</note>
</p>

<p>
If the exchange-force of both contractants be equal, or, in
other words, if both, with equal knowledge, are interested in
the completion of the exchange, there results from this attitude
of the parties toward each other, what is called an equitable,
or average price, in which both meet with their deserts.
Here each is a gainer, since each has parted with the commodity
which was less necessary to him, and received in
exchange the commodity which was more necessary to him.
Looked at, however, from the stand-point, not simply of a
nation's but of the world's economy, the value given and the
value received are equal.<note place='foot'>Immense weight laid on the <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>æqualitas permutationis</foreign> (after
<hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>, Eth. Nicom., V. 7,) in the ethics and economics of
the scholastic middle ages, and in the time of the Reformation.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Melancthon</hi>, in Corp. Ref.,
XVI, 495 ff, XXII, 230.</note><note place='foot'>A very barbarous theory
of price in <hi rend='italic'>Xenoph.</hi>, De Vectigg., 4. The ancients
made little progress in this respect, although there are not wanting ingenious
observations on certain phenomena of prices. (See <hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>, (?)
Oecon. II; <hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, De Off. III, 12 ff.)
<hi rend='italic'>Mariana</hi>, De Rege et Regis Institutione,
1598, III, explains price as the relation of value to quantity. According
to <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>, the price of a thing is determined by the relation
between <q>quantity</q> and <q>vent</q>: the increase or diminution of its useful
qualities influences it only so far as it alters that relation. (Considerations on the
Consequences of the Lowering of Interest etc, 1691, Works II, 20 ff.)
<hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>, on the contrary, says that the <q>vent</q> can never be
greater than the <q>quantity,</q> but that the <q>demand</q> may be. Wherefore, he
proposes the formula: quantity in proportion to the demand. (Trade and Commerce
considered, 1705, ch. 1.) In chap. 6, <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi> distinguishes
three elements in price: quality, quantity and demand. The expression <q>quantity</q>
is, certainly, very unsatisfactory. How many examples does not
<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi> (Thoughts and Details, on the
high and low Prices of the last thirty Years, 1823, part IV) give to illustrate
how, when the supply was smallest, prices were lowest and
<hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>!
It was so almost always after the market was over-filled, when a great many
speculators had lost and no one dared to purchase anew.
<hi rend='italic'>Montanari</hi> (ob. 1687) furnishes us with an excellent theory of
prices. (Della Moneta, 64 ff., Custodi.) And a still better one, <hi rend='italic'>Sam.
Pufendorf</hi>, Jus Naturæ et Gentium, 1672, V. 1, who must be considered the best
authority on the laws of prices before <hi rend='italic'>Stewart</hi>.
<hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>, Traité des Grains, II, 1, 10.
<hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, Della Moneta, I, 2, knows only the factors
<hi rend='italic'>utilità</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>rarità</hi>, although in his
exposition of the latter, he discusses many points which would be called the cost
of production in our time. The wisdom of Providence has granted us the
most useful things in the greatest abundance to make them cheap.
<hi rend='italic'>Stewart</hi>, Principles II, 2, 4, rendered a great service to the
theory of prices, tracing back supply to the cost of production, demand to want and
ability to pay; and his deserves to be called the immediate predecessor of
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann's</hi> remarkable theory. (<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>,
Staatsw. Untersuchungen, 66 ff.) For a peculiar theory of prices, see
<hi rend='italic'>Paganini</hi>, Saggio sopra il giusto Pregio delle Cose, 189 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Neri</hi>, Osservazioni, 1751, 127. <hi rend='italic'>Gust.
Menger</hi>, Grundsätze, I, 179 ff., has made an interesting attempt to explain the
formation of prices in its simplest shape, in the supposition of a monopoly in the
seller, and by then going over to the subsequent modifications introduced by the
competition of many sellers.</note>
</p>

<pb n='308'/><anchor id='Pg308'/>

<p>
As a rule, the price-relation of two commodities is determined
by this relation of demand and supply,&mdash;by the desire
to possess and the difficulty of obtaining them. We must,
therefore, examine on what deeper relations supply and demand
themselves depend.<note place='foot'><q>Instead of separating, in the same matter,
the points of view of the buyer and seller, we may distinguish the consideration of
the thing to be acquired and the thing to be given by one and the same person.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Rau.</hi>) The possessor of the more current commodity appears
especially as demanding, that of the less current as offering or supplying,
(<hi rend='italic'>v. Mangoldt.</hi>)</note> In the case of the purchaser, the
<pb n='309'/><anchor id='Pg309'/>
value in use of the commodity and his own ability to pay constitute
the maximum limit of its price, which price may, however,
be modified by the cost of producing it<note place='foot'>This is for
free goods=0, for monopolized goods=1/0.</note> elsewhere or at
another time. In the case of the seller, the cost of production
is the minimum limit, which may, however, be extended
by the cost of procuring the commodity by the purchaser at
another time or place.<note place='foot'>The obvious fact that every price supposes a
comparison of two commodities, and that every buyer is, at the same time, a seller, has
been overlooked by only too many writers. And hence <hi rend='italic'>Dutot's</hi>
opinion, that, as all men buy and few only sell, the state, in case of doubt, should
favor the buyer. (Réflexions sur le Commerce et les Finances, 1738, 962, éd. Daire.) And
so the often-mooted question whether universal dearness or cheapness is more useful: the
latter advocated, for instance, by <hi rend='italic'>Herbert</hi>, Police générale des
Grains, 1755; <hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, Meditazioni, V; the former by
<hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>, Traité des Grains, I, 7, II, 9; and by the
Physiocrates. (<hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, Maximes générales, Nr. 18 ff., I,
Problème Économique; also by <hi rend='italic'>A. Young</hi>, Polit. Arithmetics,
ch. 8.) The laity in Political Economy understand by dearness only the general
cheapness of the medium of circulation or exchange, and <hi rend='italic'>vice
versa</hi>.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CII. Demand.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CII.</head>
<head>Demand.</head>

<p>
The purchaser in his demand is wont to consider principally
the value in use of a commodity, according as it, in a higher
or lower degree, ministers to a necessary want, to a decency
or to a luxury. The difference of opinion as to which of
these categories any given want belongs depends not only on
the nature of the country and the customs of its people, but,
for the most part, also, on the prejudices of class and on personal
individuality.<note place='foot'>Thus, even a poor man in Naples
sometimes requires a glass of ice-water. The introduction of the
extensive use of snow into Sicily improved the condition of the public health.
(<hi rend='italic'>Rehfues</hi>, Gemälde von Neapel, I, 37 ff.) On the
other hand, furs, in the far north, are articles of prime necessity. Newspapers
in a free country satisfy a want much more urgent than in countries which
are not free. And so, <hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi> says that shoes are
<q>necessaries</q> to all Englishmen, since without them, their health would suffer.
To the lower classes of Scotland they are <q>luxuries.</q> Custom permits them to
go barefoot without hardship or degradation. For the middle classes of the same country,
they are <q>decencies.</q> Shoes are worn there, not to protect the feet but one's
civil position. In Turkey, tobacco is a decency and wine a luxury. The reverse
is the case in England. (Outlines, 36 ff.)</note> A reasonable man will employ only the
<pb n='310'/><anchor id='Pg310'/>
surplus of the first class in the satisfaction of wants of the
second, and again only the surplus of the second in the satisfaction
of wants of the third.<note place='foot'>As to the relativity of the
opposites of <q>temperance</q> and <q>excess,</q> every
person should attend to the following points: a, not to exceed one's income;
b, to provide for one's self and one's family; c, to lay by something for a
rainy day; d, to place one's self in a position to care for the poor; e, to indulge
in no pleasure injurious to body or mind; f, to give no bad example.
(<hi rend='italic'>Tucker</hi>, Two Sermons, 29 ff.) <hi rend='italic'>Menger</hi>,
Grundsätze, I, 92 ff., endeavors to compare the value in use
of different commodities from the point of view, that
the means of gratification of a less urgent want, when the more urgent wants
of the present are satisfied completely, should be preferred to the means of
over-gratifying the latter.</note>
</p>

<p>
If the value in use of a commodity rises or falls, and surrounding
circumstances remain unchanged, its price also rises
or falls.<note place='foot'>Thus the price of many dark articles of apparel rises
in a moment of unexpected universal mourning. A very remarkable case in Paris, at the
death of Henry II. (<hi rend='italic'>Montanari</hi>, Delia Moneta, 85, Custodi.) On
the other hand, a change of fashion may greatly depress the price of many commodities.
Such a change may take place even in the case of precious stones; as, for
instance, now in London, a perfect emerald is most highly prized.
(<hi rend='italic'>King</hi>, Precious Stones and Metals, 1871.) The rise of many drugs
in times of cholera, and of leeches, for example, in Paris, 600 per cent. Rise of the
price of powder, horses etc. at the outbreak of a war, and of the price of iron
caused by extensive railroad building. In Circassia, a good shirt of mail was
formerly worth from 10 to 200 oxen: but since it was discovered not to be a
protection against cannon balls, its price fell 50 per cent.
(<hi rend='italic'>Bell</hi>, Journal of a Residence in Circassia, I,
403.)</note><note place='foot'>On <q>connected</q> (<foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>connexen</foreign>) goods, the use of one of which supposes the
use of the other, as, for instance, sugar and coffee, wood and stone used in
the construction of buildings, see <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, Nat.-Oek, II.
Aufl., 179.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='311'/><anchor id='Pg311'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CIII. Demand.&mdash;Indispensable Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_103"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CIII.</head>
<head>Demand.&mdash;Indispensable Goods.</head>

<p>
When the supply of articles of luxury diminishes, the price
of them, it is true, rises. But as now there is a number of
purchasers no longer able to pay for them, the demand for
them also decreases, and their price, as a consequence, rises in
a less degree than might be inferred from the amount and condition
of the supply merely. And so, on the other hand, an
increase of the supply which lowers the price is wont, in the
case of pleasures capable of a wide extension, such as are ministered
to by fine roots, vegetables, etc., to produce an increase
of the demand, and this operates to arrest the falling price.
</p>

<p>
It is quite otherwise, in the case of indispensable goods, as for
instance, wheat. When there is a want of such an article, men
prefer to dispense with all other articles, to some extent, rather
than to practice frugality in bread; and all the more, as bread
is not so much used as consumed rapidly, while clothes and
metallic articles last a long time. And even after an over-abundant
harvest, leaving voluntary waste out of the question,
consumption is increased by a finer separating of the flour, an
increase in the amount of corn fed to cattle, and the distillation
of spirits. Hence, demand and supply by no means run in
parallel lines at every moment; and indispensable articles tend
to greater perturbations in price than those which can be dispensed
with.<note place='foot'>Observed by <hi rend='italic'>Necker</hi>, Sur la
Législation et le Commerce des Grains, 1776. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>,
Ueber Kornhandel und Theuerungspolitik, 1853, 1 ff. In Athens, for instance, the
<hi rend='italic'>medimnos</hi> of wheat cost ordinarily five drachmas,
but during the siege by Sulla it rose to 1000 drachmas.
(<hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi> adv. Phorm., 918. <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>,
Sulla, 13.) Compare II. Kings, 6, 25, 7, 1. In Paris during the siege by Henry
IV. it rose to 5000 per cent. of the ordinary price.
(<hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>, Inquiry, 60 ff.) During the siege of Breisach,
in 1638, a mouse was finally worth 1 florin, the quarter of a dog, 7 florins, a
quarter of wheat, 80 thalers. (<hi rend='italic'>Röse</hi>, Leben H. Bernhards, M.,
11, 269.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, V, 248
seq.</note><note place='foot'>Wheat is still more indispensable than meat. Hence, in
the ten principal markets of Prussia, the price of rye rose much more from 1811 to 1860
than the price of beef; the former between 0.32 and 1.03 silver groschens and the
latter between 2.32 and 4.94 silver groschens. (Annalen der preussischen
Landwirthschaft, 1869, No. 9.) And so in the Rhine district, the wine harvests
have undergone much greater changes in price than the prices of must, although
the years differed very largely in the quality of the yield. Thus the
crop of 1830 was only 225, that of 1868, 10,845 pieces, and yet the minimum
price between 1831 and 1865 was only from 3 to 58 flr. per ome.
(<hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi>, Preuss. Statist., Ztschr., 1871, 168 ff.)</note>
The price of grain, especially, varies in a ratio
<pb n='312'/><anchor id='Pg312'/>
very different from the inverse ratio of the amount of the
harvest;<note place='foot'>In England, the price of wheat has not unfrequently
risen from 100 to 200 per cent. when the harvest was from one-sixth to one-third under
the average, and when a supply from abroad had modified even this condition
of things. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, I, 10 ff.)
<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi> is of opinion that in a country with
poor-laws like those of England, a deficit of one-third in the
wheat crop, if there were no stores remaining and no importation from
abroad, would cause the price of wheat to rise, 500, 600, and even 1000 per
cent (p. 15.)</note> although a formula therefor expressed in figures,
like that of Gregory King, can never be applicable universally.<note place='foot'>See
<hi rend='italic'>Davenant</hi>, Political and Commercial Works, London, 1771, II, 224.
Tooke was somewhat acquainted with Davenant. According to this law, a
deficit in the harvest of 10 per cent. would raise the price of corn 30 per
cent.; one of 20 per cent. would raise the price of corn 80 per cent.; one of
30 per cent. would raise the price of corn 160 per cent.; one of 40 per cent.
would raise the price of corn 280 per cent.; one of 50 per cent. would raise
the price of corn 450 per cent.</note>
Farmers must everywhere and always withhold a certain
amount of their harvest for seed, for home use etc., from the
market. Only absolute necessity can induce them to draw on
the quantity thus laid by. But the ratio of this part to the
whole is very different in different countries.<note place='foot'>In England,
it is 38.8 per cent. of the supply that comes to the market.
(Quart. Review, XXXVI, 425.) In Belgium 40, and in Saxony at least 50
per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi>, Jahrb. der Statistik etc. von Sachsen,
I, 276.) In Germany, the farmers consume on an average two-thirds themselves.
(<hi rend='italic'>v. Viebahn</hi>, Zoll.-v-Statist., II, 958.) With this
<hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, De Legg., VIII, agrees remarkably
well.</note> In the higher
stages of civilization, where payment in money has taken the
place of payment in produce, and all other kinds of payment,
and where the cultivator of the ground pays the wages of his
<pb n='313'/><anchor id='Pg313'/>
laborers almost exclusively in money, so that they, like all
others, purchase what bread they require in the market; a
given deficit in the harvest must be spread over a much larger
market supply; and prices, therefore, remain much less affected
than in the lower stages of civilization.<note place='foot'>On
the difference in this respect between England, Germany and northwestern
Norway, see <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, p. 71.</note> And so, it is clear
that a like bad harvest must affect prices very differently, if
there be a large importation or exportation of the means of
subsistence, and if several bad harvests, or several harvests
yielding more than the average have preceded.
</p>

<p>
In another respect yet, the price of indispensable commodities
is very sensitive, because here the mere fear of a future
want of them has a far deeper and wider influence, than has
the fear of want of articles of luxury. No matter how good
the wheat crop may have been, if the weather afterwards
interferes with its harvesting, the price of wheat, in countries
in which the spirit of speculation is on the alert, will certainly
rise, because the prospect of the future crop then becomes
somewhat doubtful.<note place='foot'>Hence it not unfrequently
happens that grain grows dear not from any real want of it,
but because it is generally supposed that such want exists. For
an explanation of why it is that wheat and similar commodities have an almost
invariable price, when the average is taken of a long series of years,
see <hi rend='italic'>infra</hi> § <ref target="Section_129">129</ref>.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1="Section CIV. Influence Of Purchaser's Solvability On Prices."/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CIV.</head>
<head>Influence Of Purchaser's Solvability On Prices.</head>

<p>
The purchaser, besides the value in use of the goods he desires
to buy, considers his own solvability (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Zahlungsfähigkeit</foreign> =
ability to pay). It is only solvent demand which can influence
prices.<note place='foot'>Case in Naples in which after
a poor harvest the price of corn remained very low, because
the oil-harvest had also failed, and the poor could earn
nothing in that industry in which they were largely employed, and <hi rend='italic'>vice
versa</hi>. (<hi rend='italic'>Galliani</hi>, Della Moneta, II, 2.) Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 7, distinguishes
between <q>effectual</q> and <q>absolute</q> demand. Similarly <hi rend='italic'>J.
Steuart</hi>, Principles I, ch. 18. Care should be taken to distinguish
in this respect between desire and demand.</note> For instance, among
a people made up almost entirely
<pb n='314'/><anchor id='Pg314'/>
of proletarians, there will be a great many cases of
starvation and death after a bad harvest, but the price of corn
will undergo only a slight increase.<note place='foot'>Thus, in the famine
in Ireland in 1821, during which potatoes rose to fabulous prices, but
wheat scarcely at all, and had therefore to be exported.</note> But where the greater
number of inhabitants own property, and where the wealthy
come to the help of the poorer classes by means of poor-rates
and acts of benevolence, it is scarcely possible to assign limits
to the increase of the price of corn. By a necessary connection,
when indispensable articles grow dear, the demand for
articles that can be dispensed with generally decreases, and
<hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>.<note place='foot'>In <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>,
History of Prices (2d edition of the Thoughts and Details etc.),
we meet repeatedly with the assertion that when the price of wheat rises, the
price of colonial products and manufactured articles sinks, and <hi rend='italic'>vice
versa</hi>. Thus, in England, the price of the evidences of national debt increases from
two to three per cent. in fruitful years above what it is after a bad harvest.
(<hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>, Inquiry, 93.) The British nation paid for the
cotton it needed for their own consumption in 1845 over £19,500,000; in 1847 only
£9,500,000. (<hi rend='italic'>Banfield</hi>, Organization of Industry, 162.)</note>
Every merchant, engaged in an extensive business,
is interested in knowing in advance the results of the corn
crop. The higher the price of a commodity rises, the narrower,
of course, grows the circle of those who can pay
for it.<note place='foot'>Hence <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi> has said that
the disposable wealth of a people is like a pyramid, with the scale of prices
of the various commodities inscribed on its side. The higher a commodity is in
this scale of prices, the smaller is the corresponding section of the pyramid.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Sir W. Temple</hi>, Essay on the Origin and Nature
of Government, Works I, 23 ff.</note><note place='foot'>This fact, in connection
with the preceding, explains the well known puzzle,
why the remnant of a piece of goods is comparatively cheaper than the
whole piece, while a small share in the public debt is dearer than a large one.
(<hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>, ch. 1.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='315'/><anchor id='Pg315'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CV. Supply.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CV.</head>
<head>Supply.</head>

<p>
In the case of isolated chance exchanges, the seller, too, takes
into consideration, first of all, value in use, and compares the
satisfaction which the commodity to be parted with and that
to be received are able to afford. It is true that in making
this estimate, he is subject in the highest degree to error
and deception.<note place='foot'>Rhode Island was, it is said, bought from the
Indians in 1638 for a pair of spectacles. (<hi rend='italic'>B. Franklin</hi>,
Political ... Pieces, 1707.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Chalmers</hi>, it
was bought for 50 threads of coral, 12 hatchets and 12 overcoats.
(Political Annals of the U. States.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, II,
108. Holland cloths and opium were exchanged for a long time at Sumatra for gold dust
worth ten times their value. (<hi rend='italic'>Saalfeld</hi>, Geschichte des holl.
Kolonialwesens, I, 260.) The Hudson Bay Company realized, it is said, at the beginning of
this century, in trading with the Indians, a profit of 2000 per cent.
(<hi rend='italic'>Anderson</hi>, Origin of Commerce, a. 1751.) When Altai was
discovered, the natives gave as many sable-skins for a Russian kettle or boiler as
could be crammed into it. With 10 rubles in iron it was an easy easy matter to gain
500-660 rubles. <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Gemälde des russ., R., II, 16;
<hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, II, 557. Similar
cases among the Germans: <hi rend='italic'>Tacit.</hi>, Germ., 5.</note>
In the well ordered trade of a nation whose
economy is highly developed, the seller, who had this very
trade in view in his production, is wont to consider almost exclusively
the value in exchange of his commodity.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CVI. The Cost Of Production.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CVI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CVI.</head>
<head>The Cost Of Production.</head>

<p>
As no one is willing to lose anything, every seller will consider
what his goods have cost him, and the cost of producing
or procuring them as the minimum price to be asked for
them.<note place='foot'>A seller not actually engaged in the business of selling for a
livelihood, and who has not purchased or produced with the intention of selling, is apt
to consider instead of this the market price, towards the determination of
which those actually engaged in trade have coöperated. Somewhat inaccurately,
the amount of the cost of production is called by <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, <q>natural price,</q> by <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>,
<foreign lang='fr' rend="font-style: italic">prix naturel</foreign>, also
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>prix originaire</foreign>, because
the commodity at its first entrance into the world cost so much.
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi> call it
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>prix nécessaire</foreign>, and
<hi rend='italic'>Lotz, Kostenpreis. P. Cantillon</hi>,
Nature de Commerce, 33 ff., understands by the <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>prix intrinsique</foreign> of a commodity,
the amount of land and labor, taking the quality of both also into
consideration, necessary to its production.</note>
At the same time, the idea covered by the expression
<pb n='316'/><anchor id='Pg316'/>
cost of production, although it always embraces whatever disappears
from the resources of the producer to enter into production,
varies very much according as it is considered from
the point of view of the individual's, the nation's or the world's
economy.
</p>

<p>
An individual who pays taxes to his government, and who
has rented land and employed labor and capital to engage in
production, must indeed, besides the capital he has used in
such production, call all his outlay in interest, wages, rent,
and taxes, by the name of cost of production;<note place='foot'>The
cheapest cotton thread is numbered from 60 to 80. The coarser is
dearer on account of the quantity of raw material in it, and the finer because
of the greater amount of labor in it. (<hi rend='italic'>Babbage.</hi>) For
similar reasons, the Venetian chains cost per <hi rend='italic'>braccio</hi>,
No. 0, the finest, 60 francs; No. 1, 40 francs; Nos. 2 and 3, 20
francs; No. 24, coarsest, 60 francs. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau.</hi>)</note> since, unless
they all come back to him in the price of the commodity, the
entire enterprise can only injure him.<note place='foot'>If
a person engaged in production has himself furnished certain of the
elements of production; if, for instance, he has worked with his own hands,
employed his own capital etc., he is wont to charge as much for these as they
would be worth, if he hired himself out or loaned his capital.</note>
He will, of course, add
an equitable profit to remunerate him for his enterprise, since
without such profit, he would not be able to live or produce;
or else, he would be compelled to consume his capital. The
moment the current rates of taxation, interest, wages and rent
change in a country, the cost of production is also changed
in the case of the individual engaged in production, however
unaltered the technic process may remain.<note place='foot'>The
greater number of political economists consider the cost of production
only from the standpoint of the individual engaged in production. Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Darjes</hi>, Erste Gründe, 218 seq.; <hi rend='italic'>Ad.
Smith</hi>, Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 6. <hi rend='italic'>J.
B. Say</hi> calls even production an exchange in which the productive services
of natural forces, of labor and of capital are parted with in order to obtain
products. The estimate put upon the value of these services is the cost of
production. For some interesting examples as to how the cost of production,
in this sense, is calculated, see <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, I ed., 136
ff.</note> But taking the
<pb n='317'/><anchor id='Pg317'/>
nation, or all mankind into consideration, we must not lose
sight of the fact that these three great sources of income, as
well as taxation, are not, rightly speaking, sources from which
income flows, but rather channels through which the aggregate
income of the nation or the world is distributed among
individuals.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi> translated by
<hi rend='italic'>Say</hi>, 1807, II, 450. <hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>,
N. Grundelgung, I, 309.</note> Hence the wages of labor, for instance, which
afford the means of living to the greater part of the population,
cannot possibly be looked upon simply as a factor in economic
production. The people considered in their entirety have
the soil gratis. All saving made from rent, interest on capital,
or wages, is nothing but a change of the proportion in
which the results of production were distributed hitherto
among coöperators in production. Such a change may be
either advantageous or the reverse; but it is not a diminution of
the amount of sacrifice which the people in general must make
for purposes of production. Hence, in a politico-economical
sense, to the cost of production, belongs only the capital
necessarily expended in production, and which has disappeared
as a part of the nation's resources, abstraction made of the
personal sacrifices in behalf of production.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>L. Lauderdale</hi>, Inquiry, 124, against the Physiocrates.
(<hi rend='italic'>Riedel</hi>, Nat.-Oekonomie, 1838, I, 68.) A country which possesses
advantages over other countries, in respect to the cost of production of a commodity,
can offer it in the market cheapest. Where, for instance, with the employment of the
same amount of capital, a specially large quantity of wheat can be produced,
whether it be because of the unusual fertility of the soil, or because of the
<emph>extensiveness</emph> of agriculture (farming over a large area), wheat will,
the demand being the same, be specially cheap, whatever the proportion of the three
branches of income may have been. If relatively a great number of workmen
have been employed in its cultivation, each will receive smaller wages,
and <hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>.</note> The value of the
circulating capital which in the process is entirely used up, must,
<pb n='318'/><anchor id='Pg318'/>
of course, be entirely restored in the price, that of the fixed
capital used only to the extent that it has been used.<note place='foot'>Copper
and steel engraving affords an example of the different kinds of
wear of fixed capital, and the influence it may have on prices.
<hi rend='italic'>Canard</hi>, Principes, ch. IV, considers that one of the most
important elements in the cost of production is the length of time that capital must
<q>stagnate</q> for the sake of production.</note>
</p>

<p>
The risk, which the producer runs until the commodity
produced is actually consumed must also be borne in mind.<note place='foot'>On
this risk depends, for instance, the high price of vanilla
(<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, N. Espagne, IV, 10,), sparkling wines and articles
of fashion.</note>
There are things which are a real risk in small enterprises
that by the intervention of an insurance company, or where
the enterprises are large and insure themselves, become a
more or less variable portion of the cost of production. The
price of the product, in the latter instance, rises, by this means,
very regularly. In the former case, the rise depends partly
on the feeling of the people whether their pleasure in gain is greater than their
grief over a corresponding loss.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Mangoldt</hi>,
Lehre vom Unternehmergewinn, 1855, 81 ff. Compare <hi rend='italic'>v.
Thünen</hi>, Der isolirte Staat, II, 1, 80 ff.</note>
</p>

<p>
Those enterprises which necessarily produce different products
at the same time deserve special consideration.<note place='foot'>Wool
and mutton, brandy and fattened cattle, calves and milk, honey and
wax, gas and coke, hens and eggs etc.</note> Here
we may speak of <q><emph>united</emph> costs of production,</q> and all that is
needed is that the aggregate of these costs should be covered
by the aggregate price of both products. This complicates
to a certain extent the calculations which the seller must make
to determine his minimum demand for each product. To ascertain
this, he must subtract from the united costs of production
the amount of value which he expects with certainty
for the other product.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>
himself remarked that all artificial lowering of the price of
skins or wool must necessarily raise the price of the meat, and
<hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>. (Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 11, 3.) For a
very elaborate theory on this subject, see <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>,
Principles, III, ch. 16, § 1. Thus Australian wool did
not rise as much in price as the production of gold there might have led us
to suppose, for the reason that mutton rose to an exceedingly high price.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='319'/><anchor id='Pg319'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CVII. Equilibrium Of Prices.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CVII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_107"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CVII.</head>
<head>Equilibrium Of Prices.</head>

<p>
Goods whose cost of reproduction,<note place='foot'>It is an
important and correct remark of <hi rend='italic'>Carey's</hi>,
that the price of a commodity depends much more on the cost of producing its like
than on its own cost of production, which already belongs to the
past.</note> that is, the highest necessary
cost of reproduction is the same, have uniformly the same
value in exchange. Every deviation from this level immediately
sets forces in motion which endeavor to restore the level,
just as the water of the sea seeks its level, notwithstanding
the mountains and abysses which the winds bring forth from
its bosom.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>,
III, ch. 3, § 1. A much too high price, caused by speculation, or a much too
low one, by depreciation, is regularly followed by an ebb or flow just as much
too great. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, III, 55.)
And <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>, Trade and Money, 41, remarks that the price
of a commodity always tends to coincide with the <q>first cost.</q> This fact
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> expresses by saying that the cost of production is the
center about which the market price always gravitates. (I, ch. 7.) But here there is
still the error lurking, that the producer's profit is a part of the cost of production.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Definitions, ch. 6.</note><note place='foot'>The
English view, one very characteristic of the people, is that the equilibrium
of prices depends on this, that all commodities should have a value
equal to that of the labor they have cost. (Compare <hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>,
Eth. Nicom., V, 5.) The same doctrine is to be found in its germinal state in
<hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi>, Leviathan, 24, 1651, and <hi rend='italic'>Rice
Vaughan</hi>, Discourse of Coin and Coinage, 1675. More exhaustively in
<hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>, Treatise of Taxes and Contributions, 1679,
24, 31, 67. (Compare <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>, Civil government, II, § 40 ff.;
<hi rend='italic'>B. Franklin</hi>, Inquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a
paper Currency, 1729; Works, ed. Sparks, vol. II.) <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>
admits this to be true only of the first beginnings of society, before the origin of
property in land and in capital. (Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 5.) Most largely developed
in <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, Principles, ch. I, 4, 30. <hi rend='italic'>Marx</hi>,
Zur Kritik der polit. Œkonomie, 1859, 6, endeavors to improve on this by calling all
values in exchange <q>a determinate quantity of thickly curdled working-time,</q>
meaning by work an averaged <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>qualitätslose</foreign>, social work of production.
<hi rend='italic'>Per contra</hi>, compare <hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, N.
Grundlegung, I, 134, 156 ff.; and <hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, Principles, ch. 2,
secs. 2, 3, who claims very earnestly that price is not determined by the cost of
production, but by the relation existing between demand and supply, the cost of
production influencing it only to the extent that it influences this relation. He
calls attention to the poor-rates by which the cost of production of labor is raised, but
its wages decreased; also to the case of bank notes etc. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>,
History of Prices, V, 49 ff; <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>, Principles, III, ch.
16, 2.) For a very marked case of reaction against Adam Smith and Ricardo, see
<hi rend='italic'>Macleod</hi>, Elements, ch. 2, who, however, is much too one-sided
in considering only the amount necessary to the purchaser, and his means. Even
<hi rend='italic'>Condillac</hi> had said: <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>une chose n'a pas une valeur, parcequ'elle coûte, mais elle
coûte (du travail ou de l'argent), parcequ'elle a une valeur</foreign>. (Commerce et
Gouvernement, 16.) <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo's</hi>
doctrine is more tenable than appears at first blush. We need only
to interline his theory of rent, admit that capital is accumulated labor, subtract
all objects constituting a natural monopoly, and not forget that the
intrinsic value of labor is one of the causes of the difference of price of
different sorts of labor. <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi> does justice to value in
use even <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>en passant</foreign>.
A strange effort by <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi> to make labor the cause of the
non-use of capital. (Principles, III, ch. 6, 2.) <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>
has not unfrequently exaggerated the half-truths of his doctrines to such an extent
as to produce unwittingly a <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>reductio ad
absurdum</foreign>. According to <hi rend='italic'>Torrens</hi>, before any separation
of capitalists from workmen, price depends entirely on the work done, and
afterwards on the capital expended, inasmuch as wages, rent etc. are covered
by the capital of the person who engages in the enterprise. (Production of
Wealth, ch. 1.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='320'/><anchor id='Pg320'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CVIII. Effect Of A Rise Of Price Much Above Cost.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CVIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CVIII.</head>
<head>Effect Of A Rise Of Price Much Above Cost.</head>

<p>
If the market price rises high above the cost of production,
producers make a profit greater than the average profit made
in the country. This induces them, by the appropriation of
new land and the employment of new labor and capital, to
increase their business. Other parties also engage in this
profitable department of trade. This competition not only
makes the means of production dearer, but must eventually,
by increasing the demand, reduce the price of the product to
the ordinary level of profit, that is to an equilibrium with other
commodities.<note place='foot'><foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Ce que l'
on appelle chereté, c'est l' unique remède à la chereté.</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>Dupont de Nemours.</hi>) Tenders of division in common, in England,
increase and decrease according to the higher or lower price of corn during the preceding
year. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, Thoughts and Details, III, 105 ff.) The cotton
famine after 1861 increased the price of flax-yarn in a short time fifty per cent.,
although the raw material of flax did not rise in price, but only because care was not
taken to increase the number of flax-spinners. (<hi rend='italic'>Ausland</hi>, I,
1865.) However, there were in 1864, 490,000 flax-machine spindles in course of erection.
(Report of the Chemnitz Chamber of Commerce, 1864, 101.)</note>
Hence, in the beginning, every diminution of
<pb n='321'/><anchor id='Pg321'/>
the cost of production<note place='foot'>By the discovery, for instance,
of new natural forces, the invention of machines, improved division of labor,
improved roads etc. In France, in consequence of technic improvement, a quintal
of saltpeter fell from 100 to 9 francs. See a similar instance in
<hi rend='italic'>Chaptal</hi>, De l' Industrie française, II, 64,
70, 434.</note> turns to the advantage of the producer;
but afterwards and permanently to that of the consumers: an
economic law exceedingly beneficent in its operations, and not
unlike the action of positive legislation in the matter of patents.
There is no greater stimulus to the making of improvements
than the certainty of reward to the person who first introduces
one. The moment, however, that the improvement is
imitated by all producers, the advantage gained by it becomes
the common good of the whole nation.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>,
Staatsw. Untersuchungen, 212.</note> These are, as J. B.
Say says, conquests made over the gratuitous productive force
of nature. As a consequence, the value in use of a people's
resources increases; generally, also, their value in exchange, in
so far as the production of the now cheaper goods increases
in a degree greater than their cost of production has diminished.<note place='foot'>The
highest but unattainable ideal of such progress would consist in this,
that all products should be obtained without cost. If this ideal were attainable,
every one would be infinitely rich and all wealth would be free, like the
air and the sunshine. (Compare <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité, II, 2.)
The complete victory of mankind over nature would consist in that all men should be free
and all the forces of nature the slaves of man. (<hi rend='italic'>Smitthenner.</hi>)
<hi rend='italic'>Carey</hi> intimates something similar when he says that, with the
advance of civilization the tendency is for men to become more and more valuable and
commodities to have less of <q>value.</q></note>
</p>

<p>
As to the alternative so frequently discussed, whether it is
preferable to make a large percentage of profit on the sale of
a small quantity of goods, or a small percentage on a large
quantity, we find that, in the lower stages of civilization, the
<pb n='322'/><anchor id='Pg322'/>
former is preferred, and the latter in the higher.<note place='foot'>We
might here speak of an aristocratic and democratic principle of the
determination of prices. The greater utility of the latter is advocated in the
Discourse of Trade, Coyn and Credit, London, 1697. <hi rend='italic'>Bacon</hi> has a good
word to say for the maxim: <q>Light gains make heavy purses; for light
gains come thick, whereas great come now and then.</q> Similarly,
<hi rend='italic'>Gurnay</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>Cliquot de Blervache</hi>,
Considérations sur le Commerce etc., 1758, 48, 54. As to how Morrison, the celebrated
merchant, became rich by adhering to the principles: <q>to sell cheap as well as to
buy cheap,</q> and <q>always tell the truth,</q> see <hi rend='italic'>Chadwick</hi>,
in the Statistical Journal, 1862, 503. Compare the related opinion of
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith's</hi> continuator in an ethical direction,
<hi rend='italic'>Garve</hi>, zu Cicero's Pflichten, III, 100. The contrary principle,
the cunning of the Judæans, according to <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, XVII, 800,
was followed by the Dutch East India Company, when it, in 1652, caused the greater
number of the vegetable roots on the Moluccas to be destroyed.
<hi rend='italic'>Saalfeld</hi>, Geschichte des holländischen Kolonialwesens, I, 272.
Also, when great quantities of roots were destroyed by burning in the East Indies.
(<hi rend='italic'>Huysers</hi> Beschryving der Oostindischen Etablissmenten, 1789, 22.)
For a clever argument against such practice, see <hi rend='italic'>de la Court</hi>,
Anwysing der heilsame Gronden, 1663. The principle
similar to that of the patent, mentioned in the text, works at the same
time democratically and aristocratically, both words understood in their best
sense.</note> And, indeed,
the latter is not only more humane, but, in the long run, it is
more profitable to the person who adopts it as his rule in business.
In the case of commodities, he now runs but little risk
from a change of fashion, because the fashions of the masses
change much less rapidly than those of the upper circles of
society. In the case of indispensable goods, on the other hand,
he may now calculate with more certainty on the increase of
population, and, therefore, on a future market for his wares.
Competition, which in former times, devoted all its efforts to
bringing about the exclusion, by law, of all rivals, is now engaged,
principally, in devising means of surpassing them by
superiority of workmanship, and in thus increasing the power
of the real sources of a nation's wealth.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='323'/><anchor id='Pg323'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CIX. Effect Of A Decline Of Price Below Cost.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CIX.</head>
<head>Effect Of A Decline Of Price Below Cost.</head>

<p>
If the market price sinks below the cost of production, the
producer naturally suffers a loss, and diminishes his stock as
soon as possible. That whole establishments engaged in industry
should forsake a branch of it which is suffering from
depression and enter a flourishing one, must ever remain a
rare exception.<note place='foot'>This is true, first of all, in
those industries which are intimately connected with one another, or
of those which are carried on with scarcely any fixed
capital; also in lower stages of civilization, where the lights and shades caused
by a highly developed division of labor are not very intense. On the numerous
difficulties overlooked by Ricardo in every other case, see
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, N. P., II, ch. 2. The workman thereby loses his
former skill, that is his principal capital, and can certainly not wait until he
has acquired other and different skill.</note> But the discouraged manufacturer may
delay renewing his stock on hand,<note place='foot'>When a lowering of prices is
expected, demand is less than consumption: <q>postponed demand;</q> whereas, an
expectation that the price will rise, produces <q>anticipated demand.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, II, 155.</note> replacing his machinery
by new machinery; he may dismiss some of his workmen and
diminish the number of days during which the others shall
work. Moreover, most industries are operated by means of
borrowed capital, capital which must therefore, be returned to
the lender. Under certain circumstances, however, the industry
may be continued for some time, even at a real loss,<note place='foot'>Thus,
for instance, if the workmen were exposed to starvation, or were
likely to take their departure; if great stores of raw material were in danger
of spoiling; if fixed capital of great value were engaged in one industry and
could not be easily transferred to another. The first and third causes are frequently
met with in mining, and give rise to the mode of carrying on the
operation known as <foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Zubusgruben</foreign>,
that is, a species of working mines upon shares. In England, after the spring of 1862,
cotton yarn was not so much dearer than raw cotton, that the loss caused by the decline
could be made up. (<hi rend='italic'>Ausland</hi>, 24 Sept., 1862.)</note> so
long as the loss of interest etc., which would follow the entire
suspension of the work, exceeds the loss produced by the lowering
<pb n='324'/><anchor id='Pg324'/>
of price, but hardly any longer. If the supply of the
commodity the price of which has fallen has been diminished,
the subsequent result depends on the causes which, in the first
place, brought about the fall in price. If the diminution in
price was caused solely by a too great supply, when this superabundant
supply is gotten rid of, the price will rise again.<note place='foot'>Besides,
in the time immediately following, the price lowered by too great
a supply, may produce a species of desperation among producers, which
would lead them, in the hope of covering their losses, to increase the supply
still more, until many of them were ruined. Generally, when a time of high
prices is followed by a time of low prices, we find an interval during which
sellers endeavor to defend themselves against the decline, and during which,
as a consequence, scarcely any business is transacted, while high prices are
nominally continued. And so <hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>.
<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, II, 62.</note> If
it were produced by a decrease in the value in use of the commodity,
the diminution of the supply can restore the former
state of things only in so far as at least a part of the purchasers
ascribe to the commodity the same value in use as before.<note place='foot'>Thus,
for instance, when the change of fashion brought about the disuse
of long periwigs in every-day life, their price did not cease to fall until they
had entirely disappeared. But, if a person wishes to have one made to-day
for a masquerade, for the stage, etc., he would pay as much for it as its former
price. On the other hand, the price of whalebone has never been again as
high as it was in the time when hooped petticoats were worn.</note>
Lastly, if the lowering of the price came from a decrease in the
number of buyers, or from a decrease in their ability to purchase,
the former price will be restored when production has
been adapted to a correspondingly smaller circle of consumers.<note place='foot'>The
great plague in the time of Edward III. caused during the first year,
on account of the decreased consumption, an extraordinary cheapness of
provisions. In the following year, however, they became alarmingly dear,
because there were few producers, especially among the humble classes. A
quarter of wheat cost in 1348, 4s. 2d.; in 1349, 5s. 5d.; in 1350, 8s. 3d.; in
1351, 10s. 2d.; while in 1346 and 1347, its average price was 6s. 8-7/8d.
<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, History of Agriculture and Prices, I, 232.</note>
This last is true especially when the price, without having
suffered any absolute change, has become relatively too
low, on account of an increase in the cost of production.<note place='foot'>As
for instance when new taxes or excises are imposed. Generally when
the cost of production has largely increased, purchasers do not wait until a
decrease of competition among sellers compels them to exact higher prices,
but meet them half way, especially when many greatly desire the commodity,
and the increase of the cost is only small. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Handbuch,
I, § 163.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='325'/><anchor id='Pg325'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter CX. Different Cost Of Production Of The Same Goods.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter CX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_110"/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter CX.</head>
<head>Different Cost Of Production Of The Same Goods.</head>

<p>
Most goods are produced at the same time, but under different
circumstances, at a very different cost. In order to
estimate the influence of this fact upon price, we must distinguish
between those commodities the cheapest manner of the
production of which may be extended at pleasure, and those in
the production of which it is necessary, in order to satisfy the
aggregate want of them, to call in the dearest mode of production
to aid the cheapest.
</p>

<p>
In the former instance, the price of commodities is naturally
regulated by the least cost of production. The person who is
unable to sustain this competition permanently, would do a
great deal better to abandon the industry altogether; for it is
not in his power to raise the price by diminishing the supply;
more powerful rivals would then only need to correspondingly
increase theirs.<note place='foot'>Under this rule fall, according
to § <ref target="Section_33">33</ref>, most products of industry properly
so called. <q>If we lose a market for a year, we generally lose it for all
time,</q> said an experienced manufacturer before the parliamentary hand-loom
weavers' committee, 1840-42. Of course the cost of transportation as far as
the market must be estimated as part of the cost of production. In consequence
of this, as well as of the difference of taxation duties etc., the superiority
of one producer to another may be more than overcome. In the case
of colonial commodities, which go into the interior of a country from different
sea-ports, the territory supplied from each port is determined for the
most part by these data. Thus, in Switzerland, for instance, we find the districts
supplied by Havre, Genoa and Rotterdam; in Austria, the districts
supplied by Hamburg and Triest contiguous, but the boundary line subject
to many changes. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, I, § 164.) It must be
understood that we do not here speak of abnormal expenses made by producers individually,
whether in consequence of want of skill or because of accident.</note>
</p>

<p>
If the same law were applicable, in the latter case, producers
<pb n='326'/><anchor id='Pg326'/>
placed in a less favorable situation would be compelled to immediately
abandon the market. The market, in consequence,
would no longer be able to provide for the aggregate need;
and the price of the commodity would continue to rise until
the producers who had been driven from the market returned
to it again. Hence, here, price in the long run is determined
by the cost of the production of the commodity, produced
under the least advantageous conditions, while such production
is necessary in order to satisfy the aggregate need. The
person engaged in production under more advantageous conditions
receives in the same price of the goods, which are
cheaper to him, an excess of profit; one which is greater in
proportion as his situation, <hi rend='italic'>vis-a-vis</hi> of production, is superior
to that of his less favored competitors.<note place='foot'>This
is true especially of agricultural production, in which, as a rule, beside
the most fertile and most advantageously situated land, the worse must
be used. What <hi rend='italic'>Whately</hi> calls <q>surplus-profit</q> appears
here in the form of rent, whereas, in other cases, it takes the shape of unusually high
wages, or profit on capital. This is very beautifully and systematically developed by
<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, N. Œk., II; Aufl., 192 ff. According to
<hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>, Outlines, 15, the price-relation of two commodities to
each other depends not on the quantities of them which come to market, but on the
relative power of the difficulties which stand in the way of an increase in these
quantities. If the same producers can pursue the cheaper mode of production which does not
suffice to supply the market, as well as the dearer, we have, generally, a price
which is the mean between the two costs of production. The same is true in the case of
<q>smuggled</q> goods which ought to have paid duty. (<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>,
loc. cit., 83, seq.)</note><note place='foot'>To this section belong the secrets of
production which may be taken advantage of either <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>ad libitum</foreign> or within certain limits. In agriculture,
advantages of production can seldom remain secret. Compare, however, the case
mentioned in <hi rend='italic'>Garnier's</hi> translation of <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi>, V, 119, and that of the orchards which yielded £1,000 yearly for every 32
acres, and which were a result of the recent introduction of the culture of the cherry
in Kent, in the reign of Henry VIII. (<hi rend='italic'>Anderson</hi>, Origin of
Commerce, a, 1540.) There is therefore, a certain odium attached by agricultural
producers to keeping secret a means of agricultural improvement.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='327'/><anchor id='Pg327'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXI. Different Cost Of Production Of The Same Goods.
(Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXI.</head>
<head>Different Cost Of Production Of The Same Goods. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
Hence the price of a commodity and the ratio between its
supply and demand mutually condition each other. On the
height of the price depends, in great part, how many purchasers
shall resolve to make an effectual demand; but, at the
same time, to what amount of cost of production, sellers shall
extend their supply.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>,
Traité des Grains, II, ch. 2. <hi rend='italic'>John Stuart Mill</hi>
speaks of an equation: the price of a commodity in a given market is always
high enough to produce a demand corresponding to the present supply, or
to an expected supply. The price of such commodities only which may
not be increased to any desirable extent depends on supply and demand. In
the case of all others, on the other hand, demand and supply depend on the
price, and this on the cost of production. Supply and demand always tend
to an equilibrium which is never really attained where the price is high
enough to cover the cost of production (?). (Principles, III, ch. 2, § 4; ch.
3, § 2.) <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle's</hi> theory of prices is topped by the
proposition that all competing sellers and all competing buyers, after an economic
fashion, do not wish to sell below individual cost-value, nor to rise above individual
value in use, in purchasing. Hence, in a throng of competition of supply the costliest
productions step out of the field of competition in a descending cost-value
series; and in a throng of competition of demand, the most wearied
cravings in an ascending value-in-use series; until the quantities offered in
supply and asked for cover each other without loss, and have placed each
other in quantitative equilibrium. (N. Œk. Aufl., I, 188 ff.; compare 173,
185.) It is, however, to say the least, an instance of baseless solicitude, when
<hi rend='italic'>Wade</hi>, History of the middle and working Classes, 214, says that
one unemployed workman might depress the aggregate wages of labor, almost
<hi rend='italic'>ad infinitum</hi>.</note> We can speak of an equilibrium between
supply and demand only when the former corresponds with
the <emph>wish</emph> of those who are ready to make good the full cost
of production. (<hi rend='italic'>Malthus.</hi>) It has been asked, indeed, whether
it were more natural and better that demand should precede
supply or supply demand.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, N.
Grundlegung, I, 78; <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, Principles, ch. 31.</note>
But the inquiry is an illogical one,
when expressed in so general a manner, since supply and
<pb n='328'/><anchor id='Pg328'/>
demand are only two sides of the same transaction. But, we
may say that in the case of indispensable goods, the want of
them (demand) is always felt sooner than the excess of them
(supply), and that in the case of goods which may be dispensed
with, including, originally, money, the reverse is true.
Besides, a person engaging in the production of any kind of
goods, can, as a rule, only seldom directly investigate the relation
between supply and demand. Generally, he can do no
more than compare the market price of the commodity with
the cost at which he can produce it. Many mistakes are inevitable
here; but the making of them is the necessary sacrifice
which must be endured to purchase the more than counterbalancing
advantages of free competition.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Dunoyer</hi>,
Liberté du Travail, VIII, ch. 4; <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, I, § 158.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXII. Exceptions.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_112"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXII.</head>
<head>Exceptions.</head>

<p>
The rule that goods which have the same cost of production
have also equal value in exchange, is applicable only to
the extent that it is possible to transfer the factors of production
at will from one branch of production to another. Where
this really free competition does not exist, the price depends
entirely on the quantity of the supply, compared with the
solvability or capacity to pay of the purchaser; and hence, it
may sometimes rise far above the cost of production (monopoly-price),
and sometimes sink far below it (forced price, or
under-price).<note place='foot'>For a good classification of monopolies, see
<hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>, Outlines, 103 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Menger</hi>,
Grundsätze, I, 195, shows that no monopolist can arbitrarily determine
the extent of the market for his monopoly-product when the price
is fixed, nor when the extent of the market is known, the height of
the price. Moreover, the price may remain longer above than under the cost
of production, for the reason that it is easier to abandon a business than to
begin one, and that the fear of loss is more frequently an incentive to action
than the hope of gain. Hence the price of corn, when everything else is
very dear, is more apt to vary from the average price, than in times when
everything is very cheap. For instance, the Munich prices from 1750 to 1800
show that its highest price was 147 per cent. above, and its lowest 47 per cent.
below the average of twenty years. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, § 162,
182.)</note> Such hindrances to competition depend, in part,
<pb n='329'/><anchor id='Pg329'/>
upon natural causes. Thus, in the case of the works of art
of a deceased artist, which cannot be increased in number;<note place='foot'>Chance
plays a great part here. Thus, Murillo's Conception which Marshal
Soult had offered several times for 150,000 francs, but in vain, was sold
in May, 1852, for 586,000 francs. Paul Potter's young bull at the Hague,
which cost 625 florins in 1748, was valued before the middle of the nineteenth
century at 200,000 florins. (<hi rend='italic'>Dethmar.</hi>)</note>
or in that of living celebrities who cannot extend their mental
activity in the same degree that their reputation has grown.
So, also, in the case of precious stones, which are sometimes
found free, and therefore cost nothing, but which, at the
same time, have a high price.<note place='foot'>The purchaser resolves
to do so because it would, in all probability, cost
him more to go to India or Brazil in search of precious stones. Besides after
the working of the Brazilian mines in 1728, and again after the French Revolution,
the price of diamonds fell greatly; in the one case, from an increase
of the supply, in the other from a decrease of the demand. (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>,
VI, 355, 365.)</note> Many valuable agricultural
products are, together with their production, limited to a
definite and sometimes very small district.<note place='foot'>Thus, the
Champagne and Johannisberg grapes, when transplanted to the
Crimea, lost most of their native taste. On China's practical monopoly of
tea culture, and Ceylon's, especially in its southwestern part, of cinnamon, at least
so far as the peculiar aroma is concerned, compare <hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>,
Erdkunde, VI, 123 ff. The small deer of Angora no sooner leave the little district of
Asia Minor to which they belong, than they are in danger of degenerating.
(Revue des deux Mondes, May 15, 1850.) Indian birds-nests cost no more
than 11 per cent. to gather, dry etc., of the market price.
(<hi rend='italic'>Crawfurd</hi>, East India Archipelago, III, 432 ff.;
<hi rend='italic'>Hogendorp</hi>, Sur l'Ile de Java, 201.)</note> It is to be regarded
as a modification of such natural monopolies when substitutes
for a kind of goods which diminish, at least in part,
the demand for them, are found, at a cheaper price; for instance,
ordinary table-wines in the stead of fine wines. The
rule applies much more strictly to those goods which, on
account of their greater quantity, can replace inferior ones,<note place='foot'>Poor
material for fuel, poor day-laborer work&mdash;dwellings, medical attendance.
(<hi rend='italic'>Menger</hi>, Grundsätze, I, 116.)</note>
than it does to those where this is not possible.
</p>

<pb n='330'/><anchor id='Pg330'/>

<p>
The principal cause of forced or under-prices (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Schleuderpreise</foreign>)
is the facility with which the product deteriorates, and
must, therefore, find a quick sale, especially when its storage
or transportation is attended by further difficulties.<note place='foot'>Thus
sea fish, oysters etc. were formerly much cheaper during the summer
than during the winter, at Ostend and Scheveningen, because during
winter they could be sent to a distance. At Billingsgate market, in the
mackerel season, fish cost per hundred 48 to 50 shillings at 5 o'clock in the
morning, 36 shillings at 10 o'clock, and 24 shillings in the afternoon.
(<hi rend='italic'>H. Schulze</hi>, Nat-Œkonomische Bilder aus England, 1853, 241.) In
the Rhine country, the price of fruit does not vary so much as in Saxony, because it is
customary there to employ the surplus in the manufacture of cider, of preserves
etc., thus making it transportable and durable. Frequently, after a
very abundant crop of grapes or olives, under-prices prevail, sometimes on
account of a want of vessels, cellar-room etc.; they must, therefore, be sold
rapidly.</note> But, very
durable commodities are also subject to under-prices, and especially
those which last longest, because the supply of them
can be diminished only very slowly. Thus, for instance,
houses, in a declining city. Distress-prices are found most
usually in the case of such commodities as are produced without
any intention to produce them, as for instance, rags and
excrementitious substances. The more the mere forces of
nature preponderate in production, the less can the supply
be increased or decreased at pleasure, the more frequently, as
a consequence, do we find monopoly-prices and under-prices.
(Compare § <ref target="Section_131">131</ref> ff.) Thus the production of wheat is
invariably connected with the order of the seasons. Between seed-time
and harvest, there are a number of months which neither
capital nor skill can shorten to any extent. The cultivation of
land, to be very much greater and more lasting, supposes so
many conditions precedent, increase of live stock, buildings etc.,
that it can be attained only after a series of years. Hence it
happens that wheat, much more than manufactured products,
is subject to oppressively high prices and oppressively low ones,
during a long period of time. No matter what the influence
of the forces operating in the opposite direction may be, the
<pb n='331'/><anchor id='Pg331'/>
price of wheat depends most largely on the result of the last
crop.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, Wealth of Nations, I,
ch. 7.; <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of
Prices, I, 97. Furs vary very much in price, sometimes 300 per cent. in a
year, because, in the case of this entirely natural product, every thing depends
on the stores of them, on the temperature etc. (<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>,
Commerc. Dict., s.v.) On the other hand, the price of coffee usually varies only after
periods of a number of years, because new plantations produce only after a lapse of
years. (<hi rend='italic'>Ibid.</hi>) Pigs vary much more than cattle in price, because
the former may be made ready for the slaughter house in one-third of the time
required for the latter. (<hi rend='italic'>Thaer</hi>, Rationelle Landwirthschaft, IV,
374.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXIII. Exceptions. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_113"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXIII.</head>
<head>Exceptions. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
Other impediments in the way of freedom of competition
have their origin in social conditions. The rule governing
prices applies only where the vendor and purchaser are equally
ready to exchange. But in every case in which the producer
carries on his business, not for the sake of free gain, but
simply to obtain a means of livelihood, it may be subject to
many important exceptions.<note place='foot'>Thus the rent of farms,
where a numerous proletarian population will live
exclusively from agriculture, depends on scarcely anything but the number
of people and the extent of the land. (<hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>, Principles,
III, ch. 2.) In retail trade, where personal want comes in question, prices are much more
subject to be modified by small circumstances, than in wholesale trade, where
both parties are only intent on <q>doing business.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>J. S.
Mill</hi>, III, ch. 1, § 5. <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, II, 72 f.)</note>
The richer a seller is, the longer
can he wait for a favorable opportunity to sell. Thus, for instance,
wheat is somewhat lower in price at times when payments
are universally made than at other seasons of the year,
because a great many country people are then compelled to
sell. Where the country population are universally needy, it
sinks after a harvest to an unusually low figure, and in spring
rises again very high.
</p>

<p>
Sometimes price is affected by the agreements of the purchaser
or seller, but most readily by those of middlemen between
<pb n='332'/><anchor id='Pg332'/>
consumer and producer.<note place='foot'>Hucksters, butchers, dealers in corn,
inn-keepers etc. A remarkable case where Parisian dealers in
hare-skins attempted to ruin the new fashion in silk hats by
distributing a great number of them among the rabble, at mock-prices.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, 1st ed., 91.) The author witnessed a similar but
unsuccessful attempt in Berlin in 1838-39, by the tailors against the so-called Macintosh
coat. On the conspiracy of the English dealers in second-hand goods
against auctions, see Athæneum, Dec. 5, 1863. It is one of
<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch's</hi> characteristic exaggerations, that he says that
conspiracies to raise the price of a commodity by artificial means, are broken just as
soon as they begin to obtain their object by the interest of the individual members to
profit by the advanced prices. (Edition of <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, Edinb.,
1863, p. 59.)</note> Customs peculiar to whole
classes may exert the same influence, and such customs are
especially powerful in the lower stages of business and industrial
development. They, even at the present time, take
the place, frequently, of freedom of competition in retail business,
in the book business, and in the determination of lawyers'
and doctors' fees, as well as in the distribution of a nation's income among the three
great branches of its general economy,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>J. S.
Mill</hi>, Principles, II, ch. 4.</note>
deciding, instead of competition, how much shall go to
each. Wherever there are guilds, communities, castes etc.
with legal privileges; wherever there are difficulties placed in
the way of exportation and importation; wherever preëmption
rights or monopolies,<note place='foot'>Monopolies universally prohibited: L. un. C.
De Monopol. (IV, 59.) Police-order of the Empire, 1548, tit. 18.</note>
in the strict sense of the word, exist, the
leveling ebb and flow of the elements of production may be
still more seriously interfered with. Legislation<note place='foot'>Privileges
which the purchaser voluntarily accords to the seller are wont
to be useful to both parties. (<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, loc. cit. 155,
158.)</note> of this sort
injures the non-privileged portion of the population more than it helps the privileged
portion. (See § <ref target="Section_97">97</ref>.)<note place='foot'>Besides,
guilds, castes, corporations etc. may, when the vent diminishes,
produce under-prices as readily as they may monopoly-prices when the vent
is very good. (See <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 7.)</note>
</p>

<p>
The word <hi rend='italic'>usury</hi>, so arbitrarily used in every-day language,
should be admitted in science only to designate a famine-price,
fraudulently and intentionally caused or intensified.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='333'/><anchor id='Pg333'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXIV. Prices Fixed By Government.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXIV.</head>
<head>Prices Fixed By Government.</head>

<p>
No power can, of course, fix the price of a commodity in
the long run, which cannot at the same time fix the relation
of supply and demand. Hence, set prices fixed by governmental
authority can be made to play a part in practice only
in so far as they do not establish a price in opposition to the
real state of things, only to the extent that they give undoubted
expression to it in a manner in harmony with natural
conditions. With this restriction, set or fixed prices may, in
the absence of real competition, which can always best determine
prices, be useful to both parties; otherwise one party
would at one time, and the other at another, profit by an unjust
advantage; but it would not be long before both would
suffer from the perturbation caused thereby in all commercial
transactions. How pleasant it is for a traveler in Switzerland,
or even in Italy, to find set prices established there.<note place='foot'>Thus,
for instance, the traveler who wanted to cross a stream, would find
himself delivered over to the tender mercies of the ferry-man, without protection
of any kind against his demands. But repeated impositions in the
matter of prices would have for effect to bring a point into disrepute as a
place of crossing, and would induce the public to seek another. Similarly
in the case of hackney-coachmen and carriers in large cities, and in that of
innkeepers, at hotels and postal termini etc.</note>
Especially where competition is prevented by state privileges,
the establishment of set prices by the state for the protection
of the public may be necessary.<note place='foot'>Fixed prices
by governmental authority were soonest attempted after bad
harvests, but, indeed, with a strange ignorance of the natural grounds of the
increase in price of bread-stuffs. Thus in the time of Charlemagne. (Capitul.
a, 805; <hi rend='italic'>Baluz</hi>, I, 423.) Similarly in the case of other articles
of universal necessity, when oppressively but necessarily dear. (See § 175.)
During the last centuries of the middle ages, with their multitude of actual
monopolies, and at the beginning of the modern era, fixed prices became
more and more general. The earliest instance in the history of England of
a fixed price for bread was in 1202 (<hi rend='italic'>v. Raumer</hi>, Hohenstaufen, V,
372), and in 1266, 51 Henry III. The earliest in Prussia was in 1393.
(<hi rend='italic'>Voigt</hi>, Geschichte von Preussen, II, 659.) Many instances of fixed
prices in the Rhine provinces of Austria in 1530. In <hi rend='italic'>Mylius</hi>,
Corp. Const. March, V, 2, 587 ff., we find an ordinance of 1653 fixing prices in Berlin,
and including 72 industries. There is a very complicated system of fixed prices in the
police ordinance of the electorate of Saxony of 1612, and in the decree concerning
the coin of 1822. As to how, in Saxony in 1578, an attempt was made to
ascertain the cost of the production of shoes by shoemakers, see <hi rend='italic'>Joh.
Falke</hi>, Gesch. des Kurf. August in volkswirthschaft. Beziehung, 1868, 252. There
was an enormous extension of governmental fixing of prices under Philip
II.; one of the principal causes why Castile was so far behind Aragon economically.
(<hi rend='italic'>Townsend</hi>, Journey through Spain, II, 221.) Sometimes these
measures were adopted to prevent distress-prices; as in Hochheim, in favor
of the vintners. (<hi rend='italic'>Becher</hi>, Polit. Discurs, II, 1652.) The
predilection especially of German authorities for the fixing of prices by governmental
power, in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries is very remarkable. Thus
<hi rend='italic'>Luther</hi>, vom Kaufhandel und Wucher, 1524;
<hi rend='italic'>Calvin</hi>, Leben Calvins, by <hi rend='italic'>Henry</hi>, II,
Beilage, 3, 23; <hi rend='italic'>Bornitz</hi>, De Rerum Sufficientia, 1625, 246;
<hi rend='italic'>Seckendorff</hi>, Teutscher Fürstenstaat, 5th ed., 1776, 210;
<hi rend='italic'>Becher</hi>, II, 1823 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Horneck</hi>, Oesterrich
über Alles, wenn es will, 1684, 123; <hi rend='italic'>Leibniz ed. Dutens</hi>, VI, I,
250; <hi rend='italic'>Thomasius</hi>, Göttl. Rechtsgelahrtheit, 1709, 209; even
<hi rend='italic'>Frederick</hi> the Great, <hi rend='italic'>Mylius</hi>, N. Corp.
Const. March, I, 190. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Mariana</hi>, De Rege et
Regis Institutione, III, c. 9. Compare, however, III, c. 8, and
<hi rend='italic'>Bacon</hi>, Serm., 15; Historia Henrici, 1037, 1040. On the other
hand, <hi rend='italic'>Child</hi>, 1690, and <hi rend='italic'>North</hi>,
1691, reprove all such measures. <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Zur Geschichte der
englischen Volkswirthschaftslehre, 65, 90 f. Earlier yet,
<hi rend='italic'>Salmasius</hi>, who would allow the free <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>fori ratio</foreign> to govern. (De Usuris, 1638, 583.) For
a very rigorous price-tariff in the old Indian laws, by which, <hi rend='italic'>inter
alia</hi>, the price of provisions was to be fixed anew every fourteen days, see
<hi rend='italic'>Menu</hi>, Laws, VIII, ch. 401 ff.</note> It is more difficult to fix a
<pb n='334'/><anchor id='Pg334'/>
set price for a commodity in proportion to its complexity and
to its variableness in quality; and where there are different
grades of quality of the same commodity, and the transition
from one grade to another is almost imperceptible, such price
is easily evaded.<note place='foot'>Where trade is free, the
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>filet de boeuf</foreign>,
for instance, is worth four times as much as the
flesh of the ox's neck or throat; but prices fixed by a government
can scarcely take cognizance of the difference. How easily might not
a fixed price for beer, for instance, be evaded by diluting that beverage with
water, or fixed prices for inn-keepers by dealing out portions smaller in
quantity or of an inferior quality. Moreover, as early a writer as <hi rend='italic'>De la
Court</hi>, Polit. Discoursen, 1662, c. 4, remarks that the establishment of fixed
prices by governmental authority raises the average price of all commodities
rather than lowers it, for the reason that the few who are sellers by trade
can do more to influence the authorities than the many buyers, whose interests
are divided among numberless different commodities.</note>
In the case of every enterprise carried on
<pb n='335'/><anchor id='Pg335'/>
by many in common, where no competition is possible, it is
necessary to supply the defect by means similar to the establishment
of fixed prices; as in the case of government, by
fees for governmental services, and the coöperation of a chamber
of deputies in the imposition of taxes and the determination
of official salaries etc.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>,
Nat.-Œkonomie, II, 384 f.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXV. Influence Of Growing Civilization On Prices.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXV.'/>
<anchor id="Section_115"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXV.</head>
<head>Influence Of Growing Civilization On Prices.</head>

<p>
On the whole, prices become more and more regular as
national-economic civilization advances. Progress in civilization
tends to bring the parties engaged in the struggle for prices
that is buyers and sellers, nearer to one another, in so far as it
uniformly decreases the cost of production, and increases the
purchaser's ability to pay.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Banfield</hi>,
Organization of Industry, 120. <q>Where the economic life of a
people is still undeveloped, and the production of one enterprise is not from
the first based on the estimated consumption of another, the circulation of
goods brings with it great profits and great losses; whereas, profits and losses
grow smaller, but at the same time more uniform and regular, in proportion
as the circulation of goods increases in rapidity and regularity.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Stein</hi>, Lehrbuch, 212.)</note> (See §
<ref target="Section_101">101</ref>.) The more universal division
of labor makes commercial intercourse more necessary
to every one, at the same time that it makes it more of a habit
to him; and hence exchange ceases more and more to be a
matter of caprice or chance. The better means of transportation
and communication render it easier, in every way, for
supply and demand to meet. With the advance of general enlightenment
and education, an acquaintance with commodities
also becomes more general, and every purchaser is on a better
way to be able to estimate the cost of production which the
seller has to bear. Hence, fraudulent prices and prices founded
<pb n='336'/><anchor id='Pg336'/>
in error become less frequent; and all this is helped forward
by the greater accuracy of weights and measures. The increase
of population makes competition more active in all
branches of trade, while at the same time, with the greater
freedom of circulation, a number of causes which previously
operated to produce very high prices in one place and very low
ones in another are removed.<note place='foot'>In Belgium, during
the last forty years, the price of wheat has become
more constant every year, while the price of rye has become more variable;
for the reason that rye has gradually ceased to be an article of popular consumption,
and therefore to be an important article in trade, and is consumed
almost entirely and directly by its producers. (<hi rend='italic'>Horn</hi>, Statist.
Gemälde von B., 1853, 185.) <hi rend='italic'>Rodbertus</hi> rightly conjectures that the
price of wheat was much more variable in ancient times than it is with us.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrb., 1870, I, 36.) That it was so may be
inferred from the surprisingly large family supplies which were laid in, as appears from
Digest, XXXIII, De Penu legato.</note> But especially, the growth of a
distinct class of merchants leads to a uniformity in price. This
class are incited by their own interest to purchase at low prices
and sell at high prices. Thus, their competition in the former
case raises prices, and lowers them in the latter.<note place='foot'>In
Würtemberg even officials etc. buy their own wine almost always directly
from the vintner. This causes prices there to be exceedingly variable, frequently
from hour to hour. (<hi rend='italic'>v. Reden</hi>, Statist. Zeitschrift, Nov. 1847,
1008.) How greatly the mere presence of a regular market has contributed to make
prices more constant, may be seen in the suburbs of Hamburg, where fish
offered for sale on the street are sold in the evening for one-third of the price
asked for them in the morning. Besides, purchases made with a view to speculation
may increase the variations of price, if the speculation is unskillfully
conducted, especially when a low rate of interest, and of the profit of the
person engaged in it, has produced a blind race among the speculators.
Here the price of a commodity rises, not from any natural cause, but because
it once rose before, and <hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>.
(<hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>, Outlines, 17 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, 90
ff.)</note> In all lower
stages of civilization, the custom of making offers and beating
down in price plays a great part, while where culture is
higher, the system of fixed prices (but not by government)
gains ground continually. Here Turgot's principle is applicable,
viz.: that the current price of an article is tacitly understood
when one asks a merchant the price of his wares.<note place='foot'>That fixed
prices suppose that men are engaged in the production of the
commodity in question, as their calling in life, see <hi rend='italic'>Garve</hi>,
Zu Cicero's Pflichten, III, 64 ff. Chess-like commerce of colporteurs, and in caravans
etc. Concerning the dreadful higgling of the Bedouins, see
<hi rend='italic'>Wellsted</hi>, Reise in Arabien, <hi rend='italic'>Rödiger's</hi>
translation, I, 147; and the still worse bantering in Cashmere,
where the merchant, in the first place, always denies that he possesses
the desired commodity, then begins to search for it, in order to discover what
value the purchaser puts upon it etc. (<hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, III,
475.) On the practices in Indian fairs, see <hi rend='italic'>Th. Skinner</hi>,
Excursion in India, 1832, I, ch. 6; on the bazaars in Asia,
<hi rend='italic'>Andree</hi>, Globus XII, 7, 211. <hi rend='italic'>Herberstein</hi>
says of the Russians in the sixteenth century: <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>mercantur fallacissime et dolosissime
nec paucis verbis ... mercatores nonnunquam non uno tantum aut altera
mense suspensos detinent, verum ad extremam desperationem perducere solent</foreign>.
Hence the great variations in prices and commodities. (Rerum Moscov.
Commentt., ed. Starczewski, 39 f.) Similarly also, in 1674, according to
<hi rend='italic'>Kilburger</hi>: Büsching's Magazin, III, 249. But, on the contrary,
it is said of the Plescovers, educated by intercourse with the Hanse;
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>tanta integritas ... in
contractibus, ut uno tantum verbo res ipsas indicarent omni verbositate
in fraudem emptoris omissa</foreign>. (<hi rend='italic'>Herberstein</hi>, 52.) In the
England of the present day, the custom of marking each piece of goods with its price is
very general. Concerning the rapidity and the paucity of words with which
prices are settled in that country, where business men do not even salute their
customers, nor customers the business man, see <hi rend='italic'>C. G. Simon</hi>,
Observations recueillies en Angleterre, 1835, I, 129 f. The Athenian laws (?), that fixed
prices should be asked, and that sellers should not sit down that that they
might sell more rapidly, points to something similar. (<hi rend='italic'>Athen.</hi>,
VI, 226 f. <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, De Legg., XI, 916 f.) Athenian law prohibiting
mendacity in the markets. (See <hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi>, Lept., 459.)</note>
</p>

<pb n='337'/><anchor id='Pg337'/>

<p>
This proposition is true in the case of individuals, as well as of
classes and of whole nations.<note place='foot'>Thus the German
book-trade has fixed prices. Many merchants never
make an offer to their educated customers who are wont to do so with peasants
etc.; because they are aware that the latter purchase only after they
have compelled the seller to come down greatly from his first proposed price.
Among the Quakers it has been a rule from the beginning, never to ask more
for their wares than they were determined to accept. (<hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>,
History of England, ch. 62.)</note> It is plain, that under a system
of fixed prices we can more certainly discover what the equitable
price is, than in the heat of higgling which besides consumes
a great deal of precious time. Lastly, one of the principal
requisites of a well developed scale of prices is national honor,
and this, doubtless, increases in the higher stages of civilization,
not only because of the greater moral culture which
<pb n='338'/><anchor id='Pg338'/>
then prevails, but also and especially because that which constitutes a people's real
and best interests is better understood.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Sir
William Temple</hi>, Observations upon the Netherlands, Works I, 134,
compares honor in trade to discipline in an army. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>,
Trade and Money, 209 f. <hi rend='italic'>Ferguson</hi>, History of Civil Society, III,
4. Where the seller is not obliged to make known the existence of certain defects in his
wares to the purchaser before sale, there is always scope for fraud. Compare
Digest De Edict. aedilit., XXI, I. On the meaning of the German legal maxims:
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Hand muss Hand wahren</foreign>, and
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Ein Wort, ein Mann</foreign>, see
<hi rend='italic'>Eisenhart</hi>, Deutsches Recht in Sprüchwörtern, 311 f., 319 f. It
is a principle in matters of business, that the person who through malice or carelessness
recommends a man of whose probity there is already some doubt, should
bear the damage caused by his recommendation. (<hi rend='italic'>Martens</hi>,
Grundriss des Handelsrechtes, 24 ff.) Many attempts at dishonesty are prevented by laws
which in important contracts, especially in sales of land etc., require the
presence of witnesses, and this particularly in the lower stages of civilization.
(<hi rend='italic'>Meier</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Schömann</hi>, Attischer Process,
522; Roman, Emancipatio; <hi rend='italic'>Grimm</hi>, Deutsche Rechtsalterthümer, 608
f.), or even a public proclamation before the assembled community, at least written
documents invested with all legal formalities as practiced among civilized peoples. On
Greek laws of this nature, see especially, <hi rend='italic'>Theophrast.</hi>, in
<hi rend='italic'>Stobaeus</hi>, Sermon., XLIV, 22. Very remarkable in Sparta.
<hi rend='italic'>Schol. Aristophan.</hi>, Aves, 1284.</note>
Among declining nations, many of these developments take a
retrogressive road. The very great distinction between rich
and poor, between educated and uneducated, again produces
great fluctuations in price. A proletarian people who have
sunk so low as to live on potatoes will suffer much more from
variations in price and of the means of subsistence than a
people who live on wheat; for the reason that it is so difficult
to export or to preserve<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>,
Revision, I, 255 ff. In England the price of wheat scarcely
ever varied more than from 1 to 2. In Ireland the price of potatoes varied
from 1 to 6. (<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, Comm. Dict., v. Potatoes.) Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi>, Jahrbuch für Sachsen, I, 491 ff. The custom of asking
enormous prices with the expectation of being beaten down, is usual in Italy and carried
to a frightful extent, and related to the bad custom prevalent there of begging a
little after-payment to every little gratuity or drink-money which has been
received.</note> potatoes. Nor can it be doubted, that
the greatest possible constancy of prices is the most beneficial
condition that the general economy of a people can be in.
Where prices change while the cost of production remains the
<pb n='339'/><anchor id='Pg339'/>
same, one person can only gain what the other has lost. But
such unmerited gains and undeserved losses have an invariable
tendency to destroy the deepest roots of a people's economic
activity; and intentional speculation based upon such change usually assumes
an immoral character. (Stock-jobbing.)<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>,
Handbuch, I, 311. <hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say</hi>, Traité I, ch. 16. As to how commerce,
when fully developed, is wont to be more moral than when only
half developed, see <hi rend='italic'>Garve</hi>, loc. cit., and Versuche IV, 149 ff.
How fortunate for the public economy of nations that the prices of corn especially have
been growing more steady all the time since the middle ages. See
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Ueber Kornhandel, 56, 61.</note>
Even if Macleod be right, that an increase or decrease
in prices is to be regarded as a warning of excess, the former
of excess of consumption, the latter of production, no one will
doubt that it is the interest of every organism to confine pain
within the smallest possible limits, even if its consequences
are so beneficial to the preservation of the whole body.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='340'/><anchor id='Pg340'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter III. Money In General.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter III.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter III.</head>
<head>Money In General.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXVI. Instrument Of Exchange. Measure Of Value.
Barter.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXVI.'/>
<anchor id="Section_116"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXVI.</head>
<head>Instrument Of Exchange. Measure Of Value. Barter.</head>

<p>
Wherever the division of labor is very highly developed,
the continuance of barter, or the direct exchange of one object
of consumption for another, presents difficulties well nigh
insurmountable. How difficult it would be always to find the
person who could supply us with precisely what we wanted,
and at the same time have need of what we had a surplus
of.<note place='foot'>Trade by barter was very general in several states of the American
Union about the close of the eighteenth century. In Vermont, for instance, it was
usual for a doctor to exchange his medicines against a horse, and for the
printer to buy corn, butter etc. with a newspaper. (<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>,
Geschichte und Erdbeschreibung, II, 537.) In Maryland, the Assembly fixed by law the
relative proportions at which tobacco, pork, corn and wheat should be exchanged
the one against the other. (<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, V, 435 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Douglas</hi>, Summary of the British Settlements in N. America, 1670,
V, 2, 359.) Even as late as 1815, children were wont to run the streets of Corrientes,
crying: <q>Salt for candles, tobacco for bread etc.</q> It was commerce with England that
first led to trade by money in the United States. (<hi rend='italic'>Robertson</hi>,
Letters on South America, 1843, I, 52.) Similarly in Rhokand until the end of the
eighteenth century, where the cities, as a consequence, presented the appearance of a
fair the whole year round. In the beginning of this century, the khan introduced
the use of copper money made from Persian cannons; and much
later yet, there were scarcely a million rubles in money to a million men.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, VII, 753.) <hi rend='italic'>Basil Hall</hi>
found the uncivilized inhabitants of the Loo-Choo Islands ignorant of the use of money.
(Voyage of Discovery, 1818.) Concerning trade by barter in the Homeric age, see the Iliad,
VII, 472 ff. A supposed law of Lycurgus prohibited the use of money in
purchases, and allowed barter only. (<hi rend='italic'>Justin.</hi>, III, 2.) According
to <hi rend='italic'>Pausan.</hi>, III, 12, only barter existed in India (?) in his
time.</note> But how much less frequently would it happen that one's
<pb n='341'/><anchor id='Pg341'/>
want and another's surplus would correspond exactly the one
to the other in quantity; that, for instance, the manufacturer
of nails, desirous of exchanging his nails for a cow, should
meet a cattle-dealer who should want exactly as many nails
as a cow is worth! Here there is one chief difficulty in the
way, viz.: that there are so many commodities which cannot
be divided without causing a diminution or even a destruction
of their value; and that others cannot be stored away in any
quantity without becoming a very heavy burthen to their
owner. How useful it would therefore be, if there was one
commodity which should be acceptable to every person, at all
times, especially if in addition to this, it possessed the qualities
of durability, capacity for transportation and for being stored
up and preserved. Any person who possessed a proper supply
of this one commodity would then be certain of being able to
obtain all other exchangeable commodities through its instrumentality;
and every seller would be satisfied to exchange
what he had to dispose of against this <q>universal commodity.</q>
If two values are equal to a third, they are equal to each
other. It is, therefore, a simple matter to use this most current
of all commodities, with which all others are most frequently
compared, as a measure of the relative values of all
other exchangeable commodities. There is need of such a
measure, and it is analogous to the want experienced by the
mathematician who has a column of fractions to sum up, and
who does it by first reducing them all to a common denominator.
(<hi rend='italic'>Storch.</hi>)<note place='foot'>The person who has been used to
paying for four pounds of meat with twenty pounds of bread, and is asked to give twenty
pounds of bread in exchange for some other article, must of course have some unit of
measure in his mind to serve as a means of comparison between the value of that article
and that of four pounds of meat. In Denmark, during the rule of the aristocracy,
there were fixed prices sanctioned by the tradition of long usage, in
accordance with which the prices of all commodities were estimated in relation
to a ton of barley or rye&mdash;a natural consequence, apparently, of the
want of a common measure to govern in the greater number of transactions.
<hi rend='italic'>Bergsoe</hi>, Archiv der Polit. Œk., IV, 314;
<hi rend='italic'>Graugan's</hi> Icelandic Code contains a remarkable fixed price of this
nature in the supplement to the <hi rend='italic'>Kaupa-Balkr</hi>
or Commercial Code, I, p. 500. Similarly among the ancient Persians.
<hi rend='italic'>Reynier</hi>, Economie publique des Perses, 308.</note>
A person entrusted with the duty of assessing
<pb n='342'/><anchor id='Pg342'/>
the values of two hundred different articles would be
obliged, if he had no such measure to use, to burthen his
memory with at least 19,900<note place='foot'>That is, (200x(200-1))/2. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, III, 253. The
<q>at least</q> has reference to the fact, that in barter, the many different kinds
of most commodities has to be borne in mind. (<hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, Geld und
Credit, I, 218.)</note> different ratios. With it, he
need carry only 199 in his head.
</p>

<p>
Such a commodity, universally in favor, and which, on that
account, is employed as an intermediary in the effecting of
exchanges of the most varied nature, in the measuring of all exchange-values and as a
value-carrier (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Werthträger</foreign>) in
time<note place='foot'>This transportation of values supposes an equality of values of
the money in two places, while the transportation of goods supposes different values of
the same kind of goods in both places. (<hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, Geld und Credit,
I, 218.)</note><note place='foot'>While the words <hi rend='italic'>pecunia</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>danaro</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>dinero</hi>, and
<hi rend='italic'>argent</hi>, are all derived from unessential qualities, the German
word for money, <foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Geld</foreign>, corresponds
with the essential quality of money, since it denotes that which is of value everywhere
(<hi rend='italic'>gilt</hi>). On the other hand, <hi rend='italic'>nummus</hi> and
νόμισμα from νόμος, (<hi rend='italic'>Bœckh.</hi> Metrolog. Unters., 310.),
<hi rend='italic'>moneta</hi> (the English, money), are from the temple of Juno Moneta,
in which the Roman coins were for a long time stamped. In old German, the word for money,
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Geld</foreign>, means everything that
is paid by any one. (<hi rend='italic'>Grimm</hi>, D. Rechtsalterth., 382.) The present
meaning of the word is to be met with in a very old document of 1327.
(<hi rend='italic'>Arnold</hi>, z. Geschichte des Eigenthums in den deutschen Städten,
89.)</note> and space, we call money. (<hi rend='italic'>Merce universale: Berri; produit
préféré: Ganilh; marchandise intermédiare; Bastiat.</hi>)<note place='foot'><p>The
wrong definitions of money may be divided into two classes: those
which convey the idea that it is more than a commodity, and those which
imply that it is less.
</p>
<p>
This was a point which was contested even among the Greeks. There
were many who claimed that wealth consisted exclusively in the possession
of much money; as we find, for instance, in the pseudo-Platonic dialogue
Eryxias; while others insisted that money was something purely imaginary
(λῆρος), and the creation, exclusively, of human laws. (<hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>,
Polit., I, 3, 16, Schn.) Νόμισμα σύμβολον τῆς ἀλλαγῆς ἔνεκα.
(<hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, De Rep., II, 371.) <hi rend='italic'>Anacharsis</hi>
compares money to counters. (<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, De Profectt
in Virtute.) <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>, himself, subscribed to the second
opinion, although he saw clearly, that only useful and current things (χρείαν
εὐμεταχείριστον πρὸς τὸ ζῆν) could be used as money. (Polit., I, 3, 14 ff. Eth. Nicom.,
V, 5, 6, Rhet., II, 16.) <hi rend='italic'>Xenophon</hi> ascribed properties to money
which no other commodity possessed; especially when he said that it could never be
too plentiful, and that its price could never fall. (De Vectt. Ath., 4.) The
finest ancient explanation of the nature of money is that of the jurisconsult
<hi rend='italic'>Paullus</hi>, L. I.; Digest, XVIII, 1; and it well deserves the long
commentary devoted to it by <hi rend='italic'>P. Neri</hi>, Osservazioni etc., in
<hi rend='italic'>Custodi</hi>, P.A., VI, 324, ff.
</p>
<p>
Among the moderns, <hi rend='italic'>Melancthon.</hi>, Corp. Ref., XVI, 498, and
<hi rend='italic'>Seb. Frank</hi>, Chronik., 760, consider money as a mere symbol. On
the other hand, the over-estimation in which the precious metals were held by the
adherents of the Mercantile System was owing, without doubt, to their very superior
utility as money; for we very frequently find that the adherents of that school
insist that the precious metals must circulate. (See § <ref target="Section_9">9</ref>
and § 210.) <hi rend='italic'>v. Schröder</hi>, Fürstl. Schatz- und Rentkammer, III f.,
considers new copper coins as an increase of the national wealth, but not other copper
which is merely a commercial commodity. He frequently calls money, the
<hi rend='italic'>pendulum commercii</hi>, and expresses ideas concerning it as
enthusiastic as they are obscure (p. 86.) <hi rend='italic'>Horneck</hi>, in his
Oesterreich über Alles wenn es will, 1864, calls gold and silver <q>our best blood, the
very marrow of our strength,</q> and <q>the two most indispensable universal instruments
of human activity and existence.</q> (p. 188.) <hi rend='italic'>Th. Mun</hi>, England's
Treasure by forraign Trade, 1664, (ch. 2) considers cash-money and resources as
synonymous in every way. Only, he says (ch. 4) that it is sometimes advisable to allow
one's money to remain in foreign countries, and to use bills of exchange, banks etc., at
home, as a substitute. <hi rend='italic'>F. Gee</hi>, Trade and Commerce of Gr. Britain,
edition of 1738, laments the <q>stiff-necked folly of those who think money a commodity
like any other.</q> It is one of the most common demands of the adherents of the
Mercantile System that the home mines of gold and silver should be worked
at no matter what sacrifice, since the money employed in working them continues
to remain in the country and the newly coined precious metal is clear
gain. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Schröder</hi>, loc. cit. 109 ff., 181.
<hi rend='italic'>Horneck</hi>, loc. cit. 173. <hi rend='italic'>Broggia</hi>,
Della Monete, 1743, cap. 33; <hi rend='italic'>v. Fusti</hi>, Staatswirthschaft, 1755,
I, 246: <hi rend='italic'>Forbonnais</hi>, Finances de France, 1758, I, 148.
<hi rend='italic'>Ulloa</hi>, Noticias Americanas, 1772, ch. 12. We seldom meet with the
correct view on this subject in the seventeenth century. <hi rend='italic'>Sully</hi>,
of whom Henry IV. said that he never found anything to be possessed of beauty which cost
double its real value, had it at times. (Economies royales, LXXIII.) So had
<hi rend='italic'>v. Seckendorff</hi>, Teutscher Fürstenstaat, 1655, 5th edition.
</p>
<p>
It is in accordance with the usual course of human development that the
exaggerations of the Mercantile System led to a reaction characterized by an
exaggeration in the opposite direction. Even <hi rend='italic'>Davanzati</hi>, Sulle
Monete, 1588, traces the value of money back to human convention and refuses to find it
in nature. A natural calf, he thinks, is <foreign lang='it' rend='font-style: italic'>più
nobile</foreign> than a golden one; although he elsewhere expresses his admiration of
the precious metals, calls them <foreign lang='it' rend='font-style: italic'>cagioni
seconde della vita beata</foreign>, and lauds them because they procure us
<foreign lang='it' rend='font-style: italic'>tutt'essi beni</foreign> (20, 21, Cust.)
<hi rend='italic'>Montanari</hi> (ob., 1687) demonstrates from the
use of leather money etc., that the authority of the state is the only power
which gives money its character as money. (Della Moneta, 35.)
<hi rend='italic'>Davenant</hi> (ob., 1714) carries his inclination to call money <q>the
servant of trade, measure of trade,</q> so far as to compare it to a ticket or counter.
(Works, I, 355, 444.) Strongly as <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>, himself, opposes the
convention theory (Trade and Money, ch. I; Sur l' Usage des Monnaies, 1720, p. 1.), his
disciple <hi rend='italic'>Dutot</hi>, in his Réflexions polit. sur le Commerce et les
Finances, 1738, 905, éd. Daire, contrasts not only paper money but also gold and silver
as representative wealth, with real wealth. <hi rend='italic'>Berkeley</hi>, Querist,
1735, teaches that the real notion of money is not that of a <q>commodity, standard,
measure, pledge, but [No. 23] ticket or counter, entitling to power and fitted to record
and transfer such power.</q> (441, 475.) Even if the names, <hi rend='italic'>livre</hi>,
shilling etc., remain, and the metal is dropped, every article may still as well as
before be counted and sold, industry promoted and the course of commerce preserved.
(p. 440.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi>, Esprit des Lois, XXI, 22,
gold and silver are a <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>richesse de fiction
ou de signe</foreign>. Compare Lettres persanes, II, 18. <hi rend='italic'>Benjamin
Franklin</hi> also maintains that the value of gold, for instance, is
principally a credit-value. Remarks relative to the American Paper-Money,
1765, Works, II, Sparks' edition. <hi rend='italic'>Forbonnais</hi>, Finances de France,
I, 86 f., calls money, simply a means to put commodities, which alone have value
originally, in circulation. Hence it is, in itself, a matter of indifference
whether, for a given quantity of coin, a person gives one thaler, or ten. In
the Elements de Commerce, I, 11, II, 67 ff., he draws a distinction between
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>richesses naturelles</foreign> (raw
material), <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>artificielles</foreign>
(manufactured products), and <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>richesses</foreign> de convention (money.)
<hi rend='italic'>von Schlözer</hi>, Aufangsgründe, 1805, 100,
138, calls money something imagined; and <hi rend='italic'>Th. Smith</hi>, Essay on the
Theory of Money and Exchange, 1807, asserts, that true money is only an ideal
measure of value, of which coins in turn are only the representatives.
Compare, however, Edinb. Review, Oct., 1808. <hi rend='italic'>Oppenheim</hi>, Die Natur
des Geldes, 1855, grants that in the beginnings of trade, money possessed the
character of a commodity; but says that as soon as the services of circulation of the
money-commodity prevailed over its services in consumption, it
lost all its importance for the latter purpose, and that all relations dependent
thereon ceased. At present, he claims money is only the representative of
commodities, but no commodity itself. See, on the other hand,
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher's</hi> critical analysis in the Literarisches Centralblatt,
1855, December.
</p>
<p>
The true doctrine was advocated in a classic form by <hi rend='italic'>Nicolaus
Oresmius</hi> (ob. 1382). See his Tractatus de Origine et Jure nec non et Mutationibus
Monetarum, newly edited by <hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi>: Paris, 1864. See
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher's</hi> essay in the Comptes rendus of the Académie des
Sciences morales et politiques, vol. 62, 435 ff. Based on the latter we have
<hi rend='italic'>Gabr. Biel</hi> (ob. 1495), De Monetarum Potestate simul et Utilitate,
1542, and <hi rend='italic'>G. Agricola</hi>, De Re metallica, 1556, I,
4 ff. This true doctrine was acclimated earliest in England and Holland, and
before the mercantile system invaded them. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi>,
Leviathan, 24, in which the <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>concoctio
bonorum</foreign> is described by means of money, and the full and clear chapter 12 of
<hi rend='italic'>Salmasius</hi>, De Usuris (1638), who, among other
things, shows how Midas, who turned everything into bread, died of thirst.
<hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi> shows very clearly that national wealth does not consist
exclusively nor mainly in money. Every country, he says, needs a certain quantity of
money to carry on trade. It would be a waste to increase the former, the
latter remaining the same. But the precious metals, by reason of their durability
and universally recognized value, possess the character of wealth in
a higher degree than other commodities.
</p>
<p>
On the whole, the use of money in a nation is like the use of fat in the
individual. (Quantulumcunque concerning Money, 1682.) Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, z. Geschichte der eng. Volkswirthschaftslehre, 80 f.
<hi rend='italic'>Davanzati</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi> had compared it to
the blood, as has recently <hi rend='italic'>Schmitthenner</hi>, Staatswissenschaften,
1839, I, 459. <hi rend='italic'>North</hi> calls money a commodity of which there may
be an excess as well as a want. (Discourse on Trade, preface and postscript.)
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>, Considerations on the Lowering of Interest, 1691,
Works II, 13 ff., 19. <hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, 1750, Della Moneta, IV, holds a
very happy middle place between the alchymists and the philosophic contemners of gold.
See, further, <hi rend='italic'>Quesnay, éd. Daire</hi>, 64, 75 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Sur la Formation des Richesses, § 30 ff, had many clear
views on this subject. <hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>, Meditazioni, 1771, II,
1, calls money the universally current commodity. The expressions, measure
of value, pledge, representative of all commodities might be true also
of all other wares. It cannot, however, be denied that most modern political
economists have not borne sufficiently in mind the peculiarities which distinguish
money from all other commodities, as is apparent from the doctrine
of the balance of trade prevalent in Hume's and Adam Smith's time. To
this extent, therefore, the semi-mercantilistic reaction instituted by
<hi rend='italic'>Ganilh</hi>, Théorie de l'Economie politique, 2822, II, 380 ff., 426;
<hi rend='italic'>St. Chamans</hi>, N. Essai sur la Richesse des Nations, 1824, ch. 3;
and <hi rend='italic'>Colton</hi>, Public Economy for the United States, 1849, 203 ff.,
who bring into relief the difference between <q>money as the subject</q> and <q>money
as the instrument of trade,</q> was not wholly unfounded. <hi rend='italic'>Ad.
Müller</hi> exaggerates a correct thought, and causes it to degenerate into a species
of mystic pleasantry, when he calls every individual in the state and every commodity
that possesses value, in exchange or a social character, money.
</p>
<p>
The highest object of the state is to develop this money-character more
and more. (Elemente der Staatskunst, II, 194, 199.) The statesman, he
says, should be money. (III, 206.) A very valuable monograph on this
subject is <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier's</hi> De la Monnaie, 1850, constituting the
third volume of his Cours d'Economie polititique. <hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, Geld
und Credit, I, 1873, is here most thorough and acute, especially in keeping separate, by
well defined lines of demarcation, the five different functions of money: measure of
value (by proper division into parts: price-measure), instrument of exchange, means of
transportation of values, and means of storing up and preserving values.
</p>
</note>
</p>

<pb n='343'/><anchor id='Pg343'/>

<p>
The more enlightened portions of every business community
gradually come to require payment in the commodity
<pb n='344'/><anchor id='Pg344'/>
which has for the time being the greatest circulating capacity.
If to this be added the sanction of the government, and if the
<pb n='345'/><anchor id='Pg345'/>
government itself recognizes this same <q>universal commodity</q>
as the means of payment of all debts, or as <q>legal tender</q>
<pb n='346'/><anchor id='Pg346'/>
(<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>puissance libératoire</foreign>),
where no other is expressly agreed upon, the <q>universal commodity</q>
in question then becomes money in the fullest sense of the idea conveyed by the
word.<note place='foot'><p><hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi> shows how the making of money
legal tender by the state, although of only secondary importance, is by no means an
irrelevant matter, since persons must then have it, even if they do not want it for
purposes of use or exchange, to discharge their liabilities thereby etc., etc. (Tübinger,
Zetschrift, 1858, 272.)
</p>
<p>
In all these cases, barter-economy (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Naturalwirthschaft</foreign>) meets with greater
and greater difficulties as civilization advances. How, for instance, could 50
days annually of socage-service or labor be redeemed by the achievement at
one time of 1,000 days of socage-service or labor? The rich man requires
money principally as a means of payment, the poor man as a medium of exchange.
The requirement or need of a people of media of payment is much
more susceptible of extension or contraction, than that of media of exchange,
made especially so by the intervention of claim-rights instead of money.
<hi rend='italic'>(Knies</hi>, loc. cit, 200 ff.) <hi rend='italic'>Ravit</hi>, Beitr.
z. Lehre vom Gelde, emphasizes this feature of money altogether too much after the
manner of a jurist. But he is entirely right in adopting the exclusion of the
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>rei vindicatio</foreign> against the
honest possessor as necessary to the completion of the idea of money.
</p>
</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='347'/><anchor id='Pg347'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXVII. Effect Of The Introduction Of Money.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXVII.</head>
<head>Effect Of The Introduction Of Money.</head>

<p>
By the introduction of money, most exchanges are divided
into two halves: purchase and sale.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>,
N.P., I, 131, very rightly remarks that this has made practice
as much easier as it has theory more difficult.</note> We may also say with
Schlözer, that by its means, exchange, for the first time, becomes
a sale, and obscure value in exchange, clear and definite
price. (<hi rend='italic'>Permatio vicina emtioni</hi>). Were there no money,
the party to an exchange, occupying the most advantageous
economic position, would possess a much greater superiority
over the other than he does now. Many a bread-buyer, especially,
would be half starved before he could agree with the
seller on the quantity of bread to be received in exchange for
the commodity he had to dispose of. The producer of the
means of subsistence would here possess an extreme advantage,
since the urgent necessity of the exchange for the one
party, and the power of the other to postpone it, would make the determination
of the price an entirely arbitrary matter.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>,
Trade and Money, 19. Hence, before the invention of money,
scarcely anything but the things most indispensable to existence were produced.
Were there no money, there would be very few scholars, artists etc.;
for the classes who produce most of the things indispensable to existence
make but few demands for them. <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, I, 11 ff., 36,
II, 54.</note>
Hence, the development of money as the instrument of trade,
keeps pace with the development of individual liberty. Payment
of wages in money makes the workman more responsible
for his husbandry etc., but at the same time, freer, than payment
in produce. Now, also, a higher division of labor becomes possible;
for the easier it is to obtain everything else for money,
the easier it is for each person to devote himself exclusively to
one branch of business.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Turgot</hi>, Formation et
Distribution, § 48 ff. Commodities which perish rapidly could be produced by persons
devoting themselves to their production as a business only after the invention of small
coin. (<hi rend='italic'>Lueder</hi>, N. Œk., 1820, 283.)</note>
Without money, too, only ready
<pb n='348'/><anchor id='Pg348'/>
commodities could be exchanged one against another. Only
when money has become the instrument of trade, is it possible
to separate the net from the gross returns, and, therefore, to
manage income properly. (<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>). Now, also, it becomes
for the first time really remunerative to produce more than
one needs for his own use, and to save. Without money, the
owner of any one kind of capital, who could not employ it
himself, would be obliged, if he desired to loan it, to find not
only a person who was in need of capital, but one who needed
the very kind of capital he had. For instance, the person who
had one horse too many, would be obliged to look for another
who was in need of one etc. And how difficult a task it would be
to determine the amount of interest, if it had to be paid in produce
or kind, and even to make a return in produce or kind of
capital which had been presumably used. (<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>). Moveable
property or resources can attain importance only after the introduction
of good money, since, previous to such introduction,
it was by reason of its great variety,<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, Geld und Credit, I, 219.</note>
and of its perishable nature,
immensely inferior to landed property. Hence it is, that
money, in a nation's economy, is what the blood is in the life
of the animal. It is, so to speak, the common reservoir in
which all food is first dissolved, and by which, at a later stage,
the elements of nutrition and preservation are distributed to
the several organs.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Schmitthenner</hi>,
loc. cit., I, 457. One of the principal advantages
of money consists in this, that every producer can discover what there is an
over-supply or under-supply of in the nation, by means of the relation of
the price in money of his products to the cost of producing them, estimated
in money, (<hi rend='italic'>v. Thünen</hi>, Isolirte Staat, II, 2, 235.)</note>
There is, indeed, no machine which has
<pb n='349'/><anchor id='Pg349'/>
saved as much labor as money. (<hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>). It is true that
the shadows which wealth is wont to cast, extravagance, avarice
and inequality of every kind, may readily grow longer
and darker in consequence of the introduction of money.<note place='foot'>Hence
it is that so many socialists attack money. <hi rend='italic'>Th. More</hi> assures us
that with the simple abolition of money, vice and misery would, for the most
part, disappear of themselves. Hence in his Utopia, criminals are bound in
golden chains and the chamber-pots are made of gold and silver in order to
make these metals contemptible. (Ed. 1555, ff., 197 ff.) Similar views among
the over-cultured Romans. (Compare §§ <ref target="Section_79">79</ref>, 204.)
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Auri sacra fames</foreign>.
<hi rend='italic'>Virgil</hi>, Æneid, III, 56. <hi rend='italic'>Pliny</hi>, too, would
recall the days of trade by barter. (H. N., XXXIII, 3.) Even in
<hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>, Factum de la France, ch. 4, we find,
together with many correct views on the nature of money, passionate declamation against
it because of its darker side. <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Argent
criminel</foreign>. (Détail de la France, 7. Dissertation sur la Nature des Richesses
etc.) More recently this darker side has been dwelt upon by <hi rend='italic'>F.
Möser</hi>, Patriot. Phant., I, 28; <hi rend='italic'>Ortes</hi>,
Economia nazionale, II, 17, and the would-be restorer of the middle ages,
<hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi>. While the latter writer lauds the feudal system as a
<q>sublime fusion of person and thing</q> (Elemente I, 221), the present system of wages,
because it is a system of compensation, he blames, and prefers the feudal for
the opposite reason (?). <q>The only <emph>merit</emph> which the state recognizes in our
day is one <emph>of service</emph>.</q> (III, 259.) <hi rend='italic'>Kosegarten</hi>,
Geschichtliche systematische, Uebersicht der N. Oek., 1856, 146 ff., is no friend to
the economic system to which money gives a distinctive character. <hi rend='italic'>Per
contra</hi>, compare <hi rend='italic'>Bastiat</hi>, Maudit Argent, 1849.</note> But
may not the knife which, in the hands of the surgeon, does so
much for life, become an instrument of danger in the hands of
a child? The invention of money has been rightly compared to the
invention of writing with letters.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Mirabeau</hi>,
Philosophie rurale, 1763, ch. 2, adds as the third great invention
the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>tableau économique</foreign> of the
Physiocrates. For a comparison of money and language, see <hi rend='italic'>Hamann</hi>,
Werke, II, 135 ff., 509. <hi rend='italic'>Hehn</hi>, Kulturpflanzen
und Hausthiere, finds it characteristic of the race, that wine, writing with
letters, and money, all owe their origin to the monotheistic stem of the Semitic
people.</note> We may, however,
call the introduction of money as the universal medium of exchange
(money-economy),<note place='foot'>Where every man becomes a merchant, and the society
itself a commercial society. <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Smith</hi>, Wealth of Nations, I,
ch. 4.</note> in which goods intended for use are
exchanged against money<note place='foot'>Just as descriptive is the German word
<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>billig</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>equitable</hi>) for cheap. Here it is plain that language takes
sides with the possessor of money!</note>&mdash;instead of barter (barter economy),
which is a system of public economy (<hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>), in an,
as yet, very little developed form, man being there less sociable
<pb n='350'/><anchor id='Pg350'/>
with his fellow men&mdash;one of the greatest and most beneficent
advances ever made by the race.<note place='foot'><p>The contrast between
barter-economy and money-economy is of great and fundamental importance. It repeats
itself with so much regularity in the history of every highly developed nation, that
political economists gifted with perception for the historical, could not possibly
overlook it. Thus, <hi rend='italic'>Aristotle</hi>, for instance, establishes with the
utmost care and accuracy the difference between οἰκονομικὴ and χρηματιστικὴ, that is,
between natural economy and artificial economy, corresponding to the difference between
value in use and value in exchange. (Polit., I, 3, Schn.) Similarly <hi rend='italic'>D.
Hume</hi>, who allows a period of luxury, culture, industry, of trade and manufactures,
of freedom and circulation of money, to be preceded by one in which the feeling of wants
is not awakened, in which coarseness and idleness prevail, one in which
agriculture is alone pursued, and monetary economy and freedom decline,
and trade by barter obtains. (Discourses, passim, especially On Interest
and on Money.) A similar contrast we find frequently, and as one of his
fundamental thoughts, in <hi rend='italic'>J. Steuart</hi>.
</p>
<p>
As to how the transition from barter-economy to monetary-economy is
generally effected, see <hi rend='italic'>F. G. Hoffmann</hi>, Lehre vom Gelde, 1838,
176 ff. In the Tyrol, as late as 1820, the greater portion of purely mechanical work,
such as that of the smith, the carpenter, and the washerwoman, were purely
feudal duties. On the other hand, payment in money was the rule, in the
beginning of the fourteenth century. (<hi rend='italic'>F. Beidermann</hi>, Technische
Bildung in Oesterreich, 3.) Yet, for a long time after, the functions of a measure of
value were performed by pieces of land, and those of an instrument of exchange
by cattle and natural products. (<hi rend='italic'>Arnold, Gesch. des Eigenth</hi>., 207.)
In France, money-economy, i.e., trade by money, had grown to importance
earlier. (<hi rend='italic'>Nitsch</hi>., Ministerialität und Bürgerthum, im 11. und 12.
Jahr., 143.) Even in the time of Mary Stuart, the Scotch estimated the rent of land in
<q>cauldrons of victuals.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>Moryson</hi>, Itinerary, 1617, III,
155.) In ancient Italy, during the first three centuries of Rome, there was, with the
exception of the Greek colonies, only trade by barter. <hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>,
Römische Gesch., I, 293, shows that the oldest ases were not money in the higher sense
of the word, but belonged rather to the stage of barter-economy. On the other
hand, we find in the time of the classic jurists, much as slavery had limited
the sphere of action of money, the principle: <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>pecuniæ nomine non solum numerata
pecunia, sed omnes res, tam soli quam mobiles, et tam corpora quam jura
continentur</foreign>. (L. 222, Digest L. 16; compare 4, 5, 178.) Similarly in
<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, Top. 6. De Invent, II, 21. De Legg, II, 19, 21; III, 3.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Dionys. Hal.</hi>, N.R. IV, 15.
</p>
</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='351'/><anchor id='Pg351'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXVIII. The Different Kinds Of Money.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXVIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_118"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXVIII.</head>
<head>The Different Kinds Of Money.</head>

<p>
Very different kinds of commodities have, according to circumstances,
been used as money; but uniformly only such as
possess a universally recognized economic value.<note place='foot'>Were
money nothing but a measure of values in exchange, it should
on that account, if on no other, have value in exchange itself, as a measure
of length must necessarily have length itself. (We measure time on a
clock by means of the revolution of the hands on the dial.) Again, value
in exchange supposes value in use. The so-called <q>money of account,</q>
such as the East Indian <hi rend='italic'>lac de roupies</hi>, the Portuguese reis,
and the earlier English <hi rend='italic'>pound</hi> sterling are no imaginary
magnitudes, which would disappear with the figures of our system of counting
(see <hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, N. Grundlegung, II, 33, in reply to
<hi rend='italic'>Struensee</hi>, Abh., III, 501); but real coin-values which
can not be represented by only single pieces of coin, units of value for the
most part no longer recognized by the state, but which the people still retain.
See <hi rend='italic'>M. Park's</hi> (Travels, 27) refutation of the fable circulated
by <hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi>, Esprit des Lois, XXII, 8, that the regular
standard money of the Mandingo negroes was a mere imaginary standard.
<hi rend='italic'>Hobbes</hi>, Leviathan, 24, exhibits a very good knowledge of this
subject.</note> On the
whole, people in a low stage of civilization are wont to employ,
mainly, only ordinary commodities, such as are calculated to
satisfy a vulgar and urgent want, as an instrument of exchange.
As they advance in civilization, they, at each step,
choose a more and more costly object, for this purpose,<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>P. Neri</hi>, Osservazioni, 1751, VI, 1. <hi rend='italic'>Lord
Liverpool</hi>, Treatise on the Coins of the Realm, 1805. The person who takes money as
such must always harbor the hope of being able to dispose of it again as money.
Hence, such an acceptance always supposes the existence of a certain amount
of commercial confidence. The savage Goahiros, between Rio de la Hacha
and Maracaibo, are too <q>distrustful</q> to take anything in trade but commodities
fit for the most immediate use. (<hi rend='italic'>Depons</hi>, Voyage dans la Terrefirme,
I, 314.) Similarly in the twelfth century, the heathen Laplanders.
(<hi rend='italic'>Arndt</hi>, Liefl. Chronik, II, 3.) Commodities which barbarians can
consume immediately are objects of the first necessity, whereas more civilized people, who
are in a condition to undergo greater expense, look more to the technic qualities
of money, such as divisibility, capacity for transportation and durability.
<hi rend='italic'>v. Scheel</hi> shows in a very happy manner how, as commerce increases,
money comes to be, as it were, subjected to a process resembling that of distillation:
first mere increase of stores for use, next preponderating values in
exchange, lastly mere orders for the same possessing no independent value.
<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrbb., 1866, I, 16.</note> and
one which ministers to the more elevated wants.
</p>

<pb n='352'/><anchor id='Pg352'/>

<p>
A. Races of hunters, at least in non-tropical countries,
usually use skins as money; that is the almost exclusive product
of their labor, one which can be preserved for a long
period of time, which constitutes their principal article of
clothing and their principal export in the more highly developed
regions.<note place='foot'>The last circumstance continues to be one of great importance
for a long period of time in the frigid zones. Thus, the beaver-skin continues still to
be the unit of measure of trade in much of the territory of the Hudson Bay
Company. Three martens are estimated to be equal in value to one beaver,
one white fox to two beavers, one black fox or a bear to four beavers, a rifle
to fifteen beavers. (Ausland, 1846, No. 21.) The Esthonian word,
<hi rend='italic'>raha</hi>, money, means in the related language of the Laplanders,
fur. (<hi rend='italic'>Krug</hi>, Zur Münzkunde Russlands, 1805.) Concerning
skin-money in the middle age of Russia, see <hi rend='italic'>Nestor</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Schlözer's</hi> translation, III, 90. The old word
<hi rend='italic'>kung</hi>, money, means marten. By degrees it came to pass that
instead of whole skins, only two <q>snouts</q> were given or other pieces of leather
about a square inch in size, which were probably stamped by the government and redeemed
in whole skins at the government magazines. Hence, there is here supposed
a species of assignats, and of disturbances of credit. The Mongolian conquerors
would not recognize them, and they therefore became suddenly valueless.
In Novgorod and Pskow, the system continued some time longer,
for the reason that these places had little trade with the Mongols. In the
rest of the kingdom it now became necessary to introduce silver money, and
in the north to return to real squirrel and beaver skins.
<hi rend='italic'>Karamsin</hi>, Russ. Gesch., I, 203, 385; I, 96, 191 f. Voyage de
Rubruquis, in <hi rend='italic'>Bergeron</hi>, Voyages I, 91.
<hi rend='italic'>Herberstein</hi>, Rer. moscov. Commentt, 58 ff. Even in 1610, a
Russian military chest was captured by the enemy, and in it were found 5450
silver rubles, and 7000 fur rubles. (<hi rend='italic'>Karamsin</hi>, XI, 183.)</note>
</p>

<p>
B. Nomadic races and the lower agricultural races,<note place='foot'>When
the Danes progressed so far as to practice agriculture, they used
grain instead of cattle, in quantities corresponding to the value of one cow or
one sheep, for money, to the end that their idea of a unit of measure might
not become obscured. (<hi rend='italic'>Ravit</hi>, Beiträge, 3.)</note> pass,
by a natural gradation, to the use of cattle as money; which
supposes rich pasturages at the disposal of all. If it were
otherwise, there would be a great many to whom payments
<pb n='353'/><anchor id='Pg353'/>
of this kind had been made, who would not know what to do
with the cattle given them, on account of the charges for their
maintenance.<note place='foot'>Homeric determination of prices in oxen. Iliad, II,
449; VI, 236; XXI, 79; XXIII, 703 ff; Odyss., I, 431. Compare, however, II, VII, 473
ff. In Draco's time, money-fines were imposed in cattle (<hi rend='italic'>Pollux</hi>,
IX, 60 ff.), and in Athens, before Solon's time, even the metal coins were, for the
most part, stamped with the figure of an ox. <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Theseus,
25. <hi rend='italic'>Böckh</hi>., Metr. Uuntersuch., 121 ff. Among the most ancient
Romans (<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, de Rep., II, 35) the imposition of fines in
property, the coins first stamped by Servius, <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>boum oviumque effigie</foreign> (<hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>,
H. N., XVIII, 3, <hi rend='italic'>Cassiodor.</hi>, Var., VII, 32), and
the words <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>pecunia</foreign>,
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>peculium</foreign>,
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>peculatus</foreign>, derived from
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>pecus</foreign>, point to something
analogous. (<hi rend='italic'>Varro</hi>, De L. L., V, 19; De Re rust., II, 1;
<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, De Rep., II, 9; <hi rend='italic'>Ovid</hi>, Fast., V,
281; <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Publicola, 11.) Old German fines
in cattle, in <hi rend='italic'>Tacitus</hi>, Germ., 12, 21; Lex Ripuar, 36, 11; Lex
Saxonum, 19. <hi rend='italic'>Ulfilas</hi> translates αργύριον δοῦναι
(<hi rend='italic'>Mark</hi>, 14, 11), <hi rend='italic'>faihu giban</hi>. Very old
German documents, of the seventh and eighth centuries, name horses as
purchase-price. (<hi rend='italic'>Grimm</hi>, Deutsche Rechtsalterth., 586 f.) Otho
the Great imposed cattle-fines. (<hi rend='italic'>Widuk</hi> Corb., II, 6.)
Similarly, in King Stephen's laws of Hungary (<hi rend='italic'>Wachsmuth</hi>,
Europäische Sitturgesch., II), in the old Irish Brehon laws
(<hi rend='italic'>Leland</hi>; History of Ireland, 36 ff.), as well as in the
Scotch collection of laws, <hi rend='italic'>Regiam Majestatem</hi>, of 1330.
(<hi rend='italic'>Honard</hi>, II, 263 f, 537.) <foreign lang='la'
rend='font-style: italic'>Viva pecunia</foreign> of the Anglo-Saxons in the laws of
William I. In ancient Sweden, all property was estimated in
<hi rend='italic'>fä</hi>=cattle (<hi rend='italic'>Geijer</hi>, Schw. Gesch.,
I, 100), just as now, in Icelandic, <hi rend='italic'>fe</hi>=property. In Berne, the
German <hi rend='italic'>vieh</hi>, cattle, is used to express commodities. Among
really nomadic races this is, of course, still more the case. Thus the Kirghises use
horses and sheep as money, and wolf-skins and lamb-skins for small change.
(<hi rend='italic'>Pallas</hi>, Reise durch Russland, 1771, I, 390.) Among some of the
Tartar tribes, everything is stipulated for in cows. (<hi rend='italic'>v.
Haxthausen</hi>, Studien, II, 371.) Among the Persian nomads, sheep are used as money;
or when they are held in subjection in the cities, corn, straw and wool.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, VIII, 386.) Oxen in use as money among the
Tscherkessens. (<hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, Kulturgeschichte, IX, 16.)
<hi rend='italic'>W. B. Hermann</hi> doubts, however, whether cattle were ever used as a
medium of exchange. He thinks rather they were employed only as a measure
of price. (Münchener Gel. Anz., 580.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='354'/><anchor id='Pg354'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXIX. The Metals As Money.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXIX.</head>
<head>The Metals As Money.</head>

<p>
C. That metals were used for the purpose of money much
later than the commodities above mentioned, and the precious
metals in turn later than the non-precious metals, cannot by
any means be shown to be universally true. Rather is gold
in some countries to be obtained by the exercise of so little
skill, and both gold and silver satisfy a want<note place='foot'>That
of vanity which presents itself among some people sooner than that
of clothing.</note> so live and general,
and one so early felt, that they are to be met with as an
instrument of exchange in very early times.<note place='foot'>In Genesis,
1, 24, gold appears only as a valuable ornament. Abraham
paid for his purchases in silver.</note> In the case of
isolated races, much depends on the nature of the metals with
which the geologic constitution of the country has furnished
them.<note place='foot'>For this reason, zinc-money is just as natural with the Malays
and Chinese as iron-money with the Senegambians. (<hi rend='italic'>Mungo Park</hi>,
Travels, 27.) And so <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Lysand., 17, may be right when
he calls iron the earliest universal means of payment. In Sparta, too, where industrious
efforts were made to maintain the lower stage of culture, this medium of payment was
longest maintained. Compare, however, <hi rend='italic'>St. John</hi>, The Hellenes,
III, 260 ff. The first copper coins were stamped a short time before Philip, father of
Alexander the Great. (<hi rend='italic'>Eckhel</hi>, Doctr. Numm, I, XXX ff.) On the
other hand, Italy, partly because it had mines of its own, and partly because of its
intercourse with Carthage (Cyprus), had become, at a very distant period,
so rich in copper that the circulation of copper, or to speak more accurately,
of bronze, was naturally introduced. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Niebuhr</hi>, Röm.
Gesch., I, 475 ff. (<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>Aes alienum, obæratus,
ærarium, æstimare.</foreign>) Copper was all the more adapted to this end the more
frequently it was found unmixed. It was generally used in preference to iron because
of the greater facility of working it. (<hi rend='italic'>Hesiod.</hi>, Opp., 150 f.;
<hi rend='italic'>Lucret.</hi>, V, 1285 f.) In modern nations copper money
seems to have been employed only after silver money. Thus, it was not
stamped in England before the time of James I. (<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, I,
ch. 5), nor in Sweden before 1625. (<hi rend='italic'>Geijer</hi>, Schwed., Gesch.,
III, 56.) Money was struck from the metal of molten bells during the French
Revolution!</note> In general, however, the above law is found to prevail
here. The higher the development of a people becomes,
<pb n='355'/><anchor id='Pg355'/>
the more frequent is the occurrence of large payments;
and to effect these, the more costly a metal is, the better, of
course, it is adapted to effect such payments. Besides, only
rich nations are able to possess the costly metals in a quantity
absolutely great.<note place='foot'>In Russia, between 1763 and 1788, there were 76
million rubles of gold and silver coins struck, against 54 million of copper rubles.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>). On the other hand, in France, between 1727 and
1796, there were struck only 40 million francs of copper, 10 million of
<hi rend='italic'>billon</hi> or base coin, and 3967 million of gold and
silver.</note> Among the Jews, gold as money, dates only
from the time of David.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Michaelis</hi>, De
Pretiis Rerum apud veteres Hebræos, 183.</note> King Pheidon, of Argos, it is said,
introduced silver money into Greece, about the middle of the
eighth century before Christ. Gold came into use at a much
later period.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, VIII, 358. Hiero, tyrant
of Syracuse, found it exceedingly difficult to obtain gold. When the Spartans wished
to make an offering of gold at Delphi they were obliged to have recourse to Crœsus.
(<hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, I, 69; <hi rend='italic'>Theopomp.</hi>, in
<hi rend='italic'>Athen</hi>, VI, 231 ff.) <hi rend='italic'>Aristoph.</hi>, Ranae,
720, calls gold <q>new</q> in contradistinction to the <q>old money,</q> that is,
silver.</note> The Romans struck silver money, for the first time, in 209 before Christ,
and, in 207, the first gold coins.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>,
H. N., XXXIII, 13. Compare, however, <hi rend='italic'>Dureau de la Malle</hi>,
Economie polit. des Romans, I, 69, after <hi rend='italic'>Varro</hi>, apud Charisium,
I, 81. (<hi rend='italic'>Putsch.</hi>) It is certain, however, that when Italy was
conquered, the Romans had introduced a circulating medium of silver, and that it was the
prevailing medium; but in the time of Cæsar and Augustus, a gold circulation
was the prevalent one. Yet the state treasure was deposited in gold
during the period of silver circulation, because gold was, without question,
better adapted to storing up and transportation.</note>
Among modern nations, Venice (1285) and Florence seem to have been the first
to have coined gold in any quantity.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Muratori</hi>,
Antiquitt., IV, Diss., 28.</note>
Henry III. of England (ob. 1272), was the first to coin gold,
but with so little success, that for a long time after, Edward
III. (ob. 1377) was regarded as the first English monarch who
had coined gold.<note place='foot'>Henry was obliged to
issue an order to the mayor and sheriffs of London,
to get his gold into circulation; but he soon saw himself compelled to desist
from executing his design. Edward III. was able only after a voluntary circulation
of them had continued for a long time, to prohibit any one's refusing
the rose-nobles. (<hi rend='italic'>L. Liverpool</hi>, loc. cit.)</note>
How little a barbarous people are in a
condition to make use of very costly material as money, is
<pb n='356'/><anchor id='Pg356'/>
proved by the account which Tacitus gives of the ancient
Germans, who preferred silver to gold in trade.<note place='foot'>German., 5. Still
more striking is the example cited by <hi rend='italic'>Herbelot</hi>, Bibliothéque
Orientale (1697), 485. <hi rend='italic'>Rubruquis</hi>, Voyage, ch. 13. In the time of
Nadir-shah, the Kurds gave, without the slightest hesitation, a pound of gold for a pound
of silver or copper. (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, VIII, 395.)</note> England
presents us with an instance of the other extreme. Since
1816, silver, in that country, has been used only as a species
of change, and the circulation of gold governs in almost all
commercial transactions.<note place='foot'>Recommended even by
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, ch. 5, and for Germany by <hi rend='italic'>F. G.
Hoffmann</hi>, Drei Aufsätze über das Münzwesen, 1832. In Egypt, also, for a
long time the wealthiest country of the middle ages, the circulation of gold
prevailed until the twelfth century. (<hi rend='italic'>Macrisi</hi>, Historia Monetae
Arab., cap. 3 ed., <hi rend='italic'>Tychsen</hi>.) Harun Alraschid's income was
estimated at about 7,500 cwt. of gold. (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, X,
235.) Something similar related of the Carnatic, <q>the land of ancient emporiums.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, V, 564, after
<hi rend='italic'>Ferishta</hi>.</note>
</p>

<p>
D. The local usage of some countries has raised many
other commodities to the dignity of instruments of exchange,
especially where the population are poor and the metals which
might be used as money have not existed in sufficient quantities
or in the requisite proportion. But people have always
limited themselves in the material of their money to such
commodities as are universally acceptable, as uniform as may
be, and current as articles of export or import.<note place='foot'><p>The use of the
<hi rend='italic'>cauris</hi> (<hi rend='italic'>Cypræa moneta</hi>) in India this
side and beyond the Ganges, in upper Asia, and in southern Africa depends on their
employment for purposes of ornament, on their greater uniformity, and on the rarity of
copper which would otherwise be better suited to purposes of change. In
Calcutta, 1280 <hi rend='italic'>cauris</hi> are equivalent to about half a shilling.
(<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch.</hi>) Compare <hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>, Africa,
149, 324, 422, 1038; Asien, I,964; II, 120; III, 233, 739; IV, 53, 420;
<hi rend='italic'>Salin</hi>, III, 62; <hi rend='italic'>Botz</hi>, in the Tübinger
Ztschr. Similarly among the fishing population of Northwestern America.
(<hi rend='italic'>Stein-Wappäus</hi>, Handbuch I, 352.) Salt as money on the
Chinese-Birman boundary (<hi rend='italic'>Marco Polo</hi>, 38), but especially in the
interior of Africa, where nature does not at all produce it, but into which it is
brought by caravans from the deserts, where salt is found in great quantities.
<hi rend='italic'>M. Polo</hi>, Travels, 305, found the
current price of a salt-tablet, two and a half feet long, one foot, two inches
broad, and two inches thick, to be equal to the value of two pounds sterling
among the Mandingos. In Abyssinia, the salt-bars are generally six inches
long, three inches broad, one and a half inches thick, and they are bound
with an iron ring to protect them against fracture. Sixty of them are worth
one thaler. (Ausland, 1846, No. 35.) Slaves used as money: <hi rend='italic'>Barth</hi>,
Reise, III, 338, 344. Tea-blocks in upper Asia and Siberia; and they are given by
the Chinese to the Mongols as pay for troops. (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Asien,
III, 252,) In Keachta, a tea-block is equal in price to one paper ruble. (Ausland, 1846,
No. 20. <hi rend='italic'>Timkowski</hi>, Reise nach China, 143.) Date-money in the
Sivah oasis. (<hi rend='italic'>Hornemann</hi>, Reise, 21.) Also in the Persian
date-country, where, formerly, the lowest silver piece of money was coined in the form
of a date (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Asien, VIII, 752, 819.)
</p>
<p>
The ancient Mexicans used as money cocoa-nuts, in bags of 24,000 pieces,
cotton-stuffs, small pieces of copper, and gold dust in quills.
(<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, N. Espagne, IV, 11.) Cocoa-beans are still used as
small change there. (Ibidem, IV, 10.) On the Amazon, wax-cakes weighing one pound are
used. (<hi rend='italic'>Smyth</hi>, Journey from Lima to Para, 1836.) Among the ancient
inhabitants of Rügen, linen (<hi rend='italic'>Helmold</hi>, I, 39); and still among the
Icelanders, the so-called <hi rend='italic'>Vadhmâl</hi>. During the middle ages, 120
ells of <hi rend='italic'>Vadhmâl</hi> were equal in value to one milch cow or six milch
sheep, or two and a half ounces of silver. (<hi rend='italic'>Leo</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>Raumer's</hi> histor. Taschenbuch, 1835, 515.) That the ancient
northern mode of valuation, by the <hi rend='italic'>Vadhmâl</hi> and in cows is older
than by the <hi rend='italic'>mark</hi> is shown by <hi rend='italic'>Wilda</hi>, Gesch.
des deutschen Strafrechts, I, 331. The cod-fish money used by the Icelanders was, on
account of its great commercial importance as an article of export, an advance upon the
use of the <hi rend='italic'>Vadhmâl</hi>. Among the Caffirs, besides
<hi rend='italic'>cauris</hi>, mats, javelins, glass corals, but
particularly brass rings, are used as money. From three to four hundred of
these rings are strung together, and two such strings are equal in value to
one cow. (<hi rend='italic'>Klemm</hi>, Kulturgeschichte, III, 308, 320 f.) Ivory used
as money in the neighborhood of the Portuguese colonies in Africa.
(<hi rend='italic'>Martius</hi>, Reise, II, 670.) In Logone,
<hi rend='italic'>Denham</hi> (1822) ff., had met with pieces of iron as a
medium of circulation; but on the other hand, <hi rend='italic'>Barth</hi> (1849), with
small strips of cotton from 2 to 3 inches in breadth, and shirts for larger sums.
(A. R., III, 274, 297, 538.) In colonies, money of this nature is continued
for a long time. Thus cod-fish used in Newfoundland, sugar in the English
West Indies (<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, I, ch. 4), tobacco in Maryland and
Virginia. (<hi rend='italic'>Douglas</hi>, V, 2, 389; <hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>,
V, 435 ff.) The last was related to the inspection
and storage of the tobacco intended for exportation. Payment was
made in orders on the stored and inspected tobacco, even as late as the end
of the eighteenth century. In 1618, the forced circulation of tobacco was
decreed in Virginia, and under severe penalties. (<hi rend='italic'>Gouge</hi>, History
of Paper-Money and Banking in the United States, ch. 1.)
</p>
</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='357'/><anchor id='Pg357'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXX. Money&mdash;The Precious Metals.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_120"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXX.</head>
<head>Money&mdash;The Precious Metals.</head>

<p>
That the precious metals are uniformly preferred in highly
<pb n='358'/><anchor id='Pg358'/>
cultivated nations<note place='foot'>When the caravans no longer
touched at the oasis Agades, gold and silver money fell into disuse,
and grain, stuffs etc. did service as instruments of circulation.
(<hi rend='italic'>Barth</hi>, Reisen und Endeckungen, I, 144.)</note>
as the instrument of exchange, depends on
the greatness and uniformity of their value in exchange, but
especially on their durability and pliancy as to form.
</p>

<p>
This value in exchange is great, because their beauty, which consists
in their luster and their sonorous ring,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ad.
Müller</hi> says very pertinently, but in a very mystical vein, that the
precious metals combine in a very high degree and yet in a very simple manner,
the principal qualities in which man's greatness finds expression: rarity,
flexibility, uniformity, mobility, durability and beauty. (Elemente, II, 266.)
In another place, he says, the highest ideal good is God, the highest material
good, gold! (III, 65.) The mysticism of gold was most highly developed
among the alchymists of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.</note> gives them
great value in use; and because, at the same time, their rarity
in nature makes the supply of them relatively small,<note place='foot'>Iron
beds are worked only when they contain at least 18 per cent. of metal.
Generally it is estimated that the furnace should yield 30 per cent. In the
copper mines of Mansfield, Norway, Agordo and Venice, it goes as low as
from one to three per cent. On the other hand, silver mines which yield 0.17
per cent. of metal are considered worth working. Lastly, gold is so rare that
generally it can be extracted only from time to time by the ordinary mining
processes. As a rule, men are content to gather it where nature has charged
itself with its refining. The extreme limit of the working of gold appears,
according to <hi rend='italic'>Plattner</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Haussmann</hi>,
at Goslar, to be reached when in 5,200,000 parts of mineral earth
there is one of gold. Spite of this, however, by reason
of their great ductility, the precious metals have been able to penetrate
even into the meanest huts in one form or another. It has been estimated
that a silver leaf may be attenuated by beating to a thickness of only
0.00001 of an inch, and a gold leaf to 0.0000035 of an inch. An ounce of gold
spread on a silver thread may attain a length of 13,000 English miles.
(<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch.</hi>)</note> and not
susceptible of increase at pleasure.<note place='foot'>How easily, for instance,
could leather-money, such as was used by the ancient Galls
(<hi rend='italic'>Cassiodor.</hi>, Varia, II, 32,) be increased to any desired quantity,
and thus its price brought down.</note> As they contain so large
<pb n='359'/><anchor id='Pg359'/>
a value in so small a volume, they are adapted to transportation from one place to
another, with but little difficulty&mdash;a matter of the greatest importance in an
instrument of exchange.<note place='foot'><p><hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi>, at the usual
tariff for land and railroad freight (10 and 5 <hi rend='italic'>pfennigs</hi>
per mile and hundredths of a mile) estimates the enhancement of the price
of the following commodities, for one mile of transportation of a custom-hundred-weight
(<hi rend='italic'>Zollcentner</hi>) at the following percentage of their average
value:
</p>
<p>
Gold, value 47610 German <hi rend='italic'>Reichsthaler</hi> per cwt., 0.000007 by
land, 0.0000035 by railroad.<lb/>
Silver, value 3000, 0.00111 by land, 0.00055 by railroad.<lb/>
Cotton, value 45, 0.074 by land, 0.037 by railroad.<lb/>
Tin, value 24, 0.1389 by land, 0.0694 by railroad.<lb/>
Lead, value 8, 0.416 by land, 0.208 by railroad.<lb/>
Iron, value 2.5, 1.333 by land, 0.666 by railroad.<lb/>
Rye, value 2, 1.666 by land, 0.833 by railroad.<lb/>
Potatoes, value 0.6, 5.555 by land, 2.777 by railroad.<lb/>
Coal, value 0.12, 27.777 by land, 13.888 by railroad.
</p>
<p>
Their great specific gravity, also, makes the precious metals easy of transportation.
Thus <hi rend='italic'>Cazeau</hi> calculates that a given value of gold is 17,222 times
as easy to transport as the same value in wheat. But as, where the weight
is the same, the labor of transportation is inversely as the volume, this number
must be multiplied by 26, and we therefore have 447,772 times. In the
case of silver, the relation to wheat is as 1:15,554. Concerning copper, see
<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch 1, 488. <hi rend='italic'>Chevalier</hi>,
Cours, III, 17 ff.</p></note>
Hence, it is much easier to keep the demand for
them and the supply of them at a level all over the world,
than it is the demand and supply of most other commodities.
And this all the more as there are not different kinds of gold
and silver, but only different qualities of their fineness.<note place='foot'>This,
at bottom, is also true, of the various kinds of copper; only, here,
complete refining is impracticable on account of the relation between the cost
of production and the product-price.</note> It
also contributes to the uniformity of their value in exchange,
that they minister mainly only to wants of luxury. The most
indispensable commodities are subject to the greatest variations
<pb n='360'/><anchor id='Pg360'/>
in price (see § <ref target="Section_103">103</ref>), whereas, in the case of the
precious metals, the diversity of uses to which they may be turned
contributes greatly to render their value, as instruments of exchange,
more equable. If the supply of them be small, gold
and silver vessels are less in demand; a part of the old ones
are melted down, and <hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>.
</p>

<p>
In durability, the precious metals surpass almost all other
commodities. They are not at all affected by air or water,
and they can be corroded only by very few fluids. Fire may,
indeed, change their form, but scarcely in any degree the
value of the material of gold, and that of silver very little, and
then only when it is subjected to a very powerful blast or
draught of air.<note place='foot'>On the other hand, copper,
and still more zinc, tin and lead lose much of their value in
the fire. Pearls may lose their entire value by fire, and diamonds
more than half of it.</note><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Aqua-regia</hi>,
a mixture of nitric and muriatic acid, dissolves gold. Chlorine
and bromine attack it. It has been noticed to vaporize at a very high
temperature. A gold thread vaporizes when a strong electric current is
passed through it. A small ball of gold gives off a great deal of vapor if
placed between two carbon points and subjected to the action of a powerful
galvanic pile. (<hi rend='italic'>K. F. Naumann.</hi>)</note>
Hence, while by laying them by, they
suffer virtually nothing at all (a most valuable article is an
article to deposit savings in), their wear and tear from use may
be very much decreased by an admixture with other metals
in the proper proportion.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>Hatchett</hi>,
Experiments and Observations of the various Alloys,
On the specific Gravity and comparative Weight of Gold, 1863. The French
five-franc pieces wear away, on an average, in a year, 0.00016; the English
crown, 0.00018; the half crown, about 0.00173; and the shilling, about 0.00456.
(<hi rend='italic'>L. Liverpool</hi>, Treatise on the Coins. 204;
<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III, 128 ff.) The wear from use of
the south German gulden is 0.292 per 1,000. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>,
in the Archiv. N.F.X, 256.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, the
average wear of coin is 2.38 per 1,000. (Historical Inquiry into the Production
and Consumption of the Precious Metals, ch. 23.)</note>
This durability contributes largely
to keep the price of the precious metals more uniform. By
the time that the wheat crop is rightly harvested, the great
bulk of the previously stored wheat is, as a rule, consumed;
and, therefore, the supply of wheat depends almost entirely on
<pb n='361'/><anchor id='Pg361'/>
the yield of the last crop. On the other hand, it is probable
that there is many a piece of money, the raw material of which
was dug from Thracian gold mines in the time of King Philip
or from the silver mines of Spain during the reign of Hannibal,
in circulation to-day. Compared with the immeasurable stores
of gold and silver which have gone on accumulating for thousands
of years, the new yield of them, in any one year, is lost
like a drop in a bucket. Hence, only when the yield of the mines
has continued for a very long time, or when it is exceedingly
great or remarkably small, can the price of their products
change to any great extent.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>,
Wealth of Nations, I, ch. II, Digr.</note> Even during the revolution in
prices, between 1492 and 1560, the yearly decline in their
prices was only one-half of one per cent. per annum.
</p>

<p>
Their great pliability of form has, too, very important advantages
for our purpose: first, that they can be divided very
accurately into very small parts, and that the volume of every part corresponds exactly
to the value of the part;<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Solera</hi>, Sur
les Valueurs, 1785, 271 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Custodi</hi>. Half an ox, for instance,
is worth half the value of a whole one only for a few well defined purposes.
As to how much the value of the diamond varies with the size etc., see
<hi rend='italic'>Dufrênoy</hi>, Traité de Minéralogie, II, 77 f. On the other hand,
the separated parts of a piece of metal are very readily reduced to a whole.</note>
and secondly, that they take an impression at very little cost, an impression
which is an authoritative and trustworthy expression
of their weight and quality, thus saving the commercial public
the perilous trouble of weighing and testing them every time
they are used.<note place='foot'>In the case of the ox, it is impossible
to imagine a mark which might not be eluded by its losing
flesh.</note><note place='foot'>The cost of coinage since 1849 has
been ¾ of 1 per cent. in the case of silver, and in that of gold not quite
2 per 1,000. (<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III,
110.)</note><note place='foot'>Platinum possesses many of the properties necessary to an
instrument of exchange in as high a degree as gold and silver,&mdash;great value in
exchange, great specific gravity and great durability. On the other hand, its pliability
as to form is very small, and therefore the cost of coining it would be high.
The conversion of platinum coins into utensils, and of utensils into coin,
which would contribute to the supply of money when needed, and to a
diminution of that supply when the demand decreased, would be much more
difficult on this account; and also because of the small degree of beauty
possessed by that metal, which renders it little adapted to purposes of luxury.
Under these circumstances, the rarity in nature of the metal is a great drawback;
for the discovery of a new mine would create a great perturbation in
prices. For this reason, the Russian platinum coins have been generally
very much undervalued since 1828 in the commercial world, and the whole
experiment was given up in 1845-46. Compare <hi rend='italic'>J. Schòn</hi>, National
Œkonomie, 128 ff. Aluminum, discovered by Wöhler, and which can be prepared
from argillaceous earth, is capable of manipulation in a very high degree
(<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>malléable et ductile à peu près sans
limite, excessivement fusible</foreign>), almost as indestructible
as the precious metals, but easily distinguished from silver by a
fine bluish color, which has been compared to that of tin; by its small specific
gravity, from 2.5 to 2.67, and its ring like that of iron. Hence it is very
doubtful whether aluminum can be made to play the part of a substitute
for silver, and still more so whether it can be used for coining.</note>
This duty the state, as a rule, assumes.
<pb n='362'/><anchor id='Pg362'/>
(Coinage.) When its authority, however, is not recognized,
as is generally the case in international trade, gold and silver
bars are even now used, and have, therefore, to be weighed
and tested.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Lingot, bullion</hi>. In India,
beyond the Ganges, and in China, bars are very much used.
(<hi rend='italic'>Sycee.</hi>) In the latter country, besides these bars, there
is no coinage except that of a mixture of copper and lead, for small change.
(<hi rend='italic'>Th. Smith</hi>, An attempt to define some of the first
Principles of Political Economy, 31. <hi rend='italic'>Timkowski</hi>, Reise
nach China, III, 366.) Concerning Brazilian trade by bars, see
<hi rend='italic'>Spix und Martius</hi>, Reise, I, 346 f. They are stamped
with the national coat of arms, the sign of the mint, the number by which
registered, that of the year and of the degree of fineness. Concerning the
Persian bars, the <hi rend='italic'>laries</hi>, see <hi rend='italic'>Noback</hi>,
Handbuch der Munzverrh., III, Taf. 29.</note><note place='foot'>Concerning
the utility of the precious metals for purposes of money, see
<hi rend='italic'>Pliny</hi>, A.N. XXXIII, 3; <hi rend='italic'>Oresmius</hi>,
De Mutatione Monetarum, ch. 2; <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>,
Sur l' Usage des Monnaies, 683 f. <hi rend='italic'>Daire</hi>, where we read
that before the invention of money, silver had served all kinds of useful purposes,
but that now it served its most important purpose, namely the making of the best
material for money on many accounts. Yet <hi rend='italic'>Law's</hi> book, Money and
Trade considered (1705) is based mainly on the idea that pieces of land are
much better adapted for purposes of money than the precious metals (185)!
<hi rend='italic'>Galliani</hi>, Della Moneta, 1750, I, 3, 4, and
<hi rend='italic'>P. Neri</hi>, Osservazioni, 1751 ff,
Cust., have very correct ideas on this subject.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='363'/><anchor id='Pg363'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXI. Value In Use And Value In Exchange Of Money.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXI.</head>
<head>Value In Use And Value In Exchange Of Money.</head>

<p>
The original value in use of the precious metals, to satisfy
certain wants of luxury in the most aesthetic and the most substantial
manner, continues still; but with the advance of civilization,
the employment of gold and silver for this purpose
has fallen farther and farther behind the more recent employment
of these metals as the best material for money. And
since now the services rendered by money may be divided into
two classes: storing up or preservation, and the transmission
(division, concentration) of values,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>North</hi>,
Discourses upon Trade, 16. The capacity of money to act as a
storer of wealth has been as much over-estimated by the so called Mercantile
System, as its capacity to transfer wealth has been by the so called
currency-school.</note> the former always plays a
greater part in the earlier states of the development of trade
by money; and the latter plays the larger part in the later
stages of the same development. We may best compare money to
the other machines or instruments of commerce.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith</hi> compares money to a large wheel, by means of which a due
share of the means of subsistence and of enjoyment is distributed to each
member of society. Elsewhere he compares its utility to streets and roads.
(Wealth of Nations, II, ch. 2.) <hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>, On Money, Pr.,
prefers to compare it to the oil with which the wheels of circulation are greased.
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi> compares money to porters. (N. Principes, II,
ch. 2.) <q>Money is to commerce what railways are to locomotion, a contrivance to
diminish friction.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill.</hi>) According to
<hi rend='italic'>Schmitthenner</hi>, 455, it bears the same relation to other
commodities that the written language of a people's literature does to their
dialects.</note>
</p>

<p>
The person who, in times when there is a dearth of goods,
and especially of capital, complains of a want of money, commits
the same error as if he ascribed a scarcity or absence of
grain, when it exists, to a too small number of wagons to carry
it, or to the narrowness of country highways. The inference
may, indeed, be sometimes well-founded, but certainly only by
way of exception; and yet it is generally the first which politico-economical
<pb n='364'/><anchor id='Pg364'/>
quacks think of in practice.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Law's</hi>
views on money are, in part, excellent. Thus, for instance, he
says that the debasement of the coin from financial necessity is as great a
folly as it would be to try to enlarge a piece of goods too small for the purpose
for which it was intended, by diminishing the length of the yard-stick.
(Sur l'Usage des Monnaies, 697.) A country entirely isolated from all others
could get along as well with one hundred pounds sterling as with a million.
(Money and Trade, p. 88.) Elsewhere, he confounds money and capital to
such a degree that he considers every increase of the amount of money in a
country as an enrichment of the people, a means to give employment to the
poor, to carry on manufactures etc. (Money and Trade, 23, 26 ff., 168.) A
given quantity of money is capable of giving employment at most only to
a certain number of men. (21.) A nation's power and wealth depend on
the population and its stores of goods, these on commerce, and commerce in
turn on the amount of money. (Pp. 110, 220.) The advice given, in 1848,
to the National Assembly of France, but which it had the good sense to
reject, to overflow all France with the so-called <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>bons hypothécaires</foreign>, is akin to
Law's practical propositions. <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours,
III, 8, rightly ridicules the literal construction of the words:
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>l'argent est abondant</foreign>,
when merchants find it easy to obtain credit, and considers it as well grounded as it
would be to infer from the maxim: <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>l'argent
est le nerf de la guerre</foreign>, that rifles and
bullets were made of silver.</note> Like all tools or
instruments, money constitutes a part of an individual's or a
nation's, or of the world's capital. Considered from the point
of view of private business or economy, money is circulating
capital, but from the point of view of the world's economy, it
is fixed capital.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>
was not entirely clear, in his own mind, on this point. Thus
inconsistently enough, he calls money unproductive&mdash;<q>dead stock,</q> for the
reason that it leaves no material traces behind it of the goods which it has
transferred from one hand to another. (II, ch. 2.) Is not the same true of
trade itself? And yet Adam Smith calls trade productive. His error is
doubtless a remnant of the Physiocratic doctrine, to which Smith still held.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, 94, éd. Daire. Even
<hi rend='italic'>Twiss</hi> says that money employed as
money is unproductive, but that, when employed as a commodity, it is productive.
(View of the Progress of Political Economy, since the sixteenth
Century, 1847.) Besides it is not a peculiarity of money alone, that, after it
has served the purposes of production, it comes out of the product unaltered.
The same is true of quicksilver employed in amalgamation.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, 2nd edition, 302.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='365'/><anchor id='Pg365'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXII. Value In Exchange Of Money.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXII.</head>
<head>Value In Exchange Of Money.</head>

<p>
The value in exchange of money is said to be high when
all other commodities estimated in money are cheap; and low
in the opposite case. We have here to do with the application
of the most general of all laws of price; therefore, with
the demand and supply of money. The demand for it depends
on the wants and the means of payment of its purchasers.
Therefore, if a country has little trade, it will, on this account,
need only few instruments of trade, that is, of little money
to effect exchanges. If it be poor in other goods, it will get
little money in exchange. In the former respect, there is a
beneficent principle of equalization or compensation which decreases
the price-variations of money, no matter of what kind,
in the necessity, when the number of business transactions remains
the same and money becomes cheaper, to use more of it,
and less when it becomes dearer.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>,
Three Lectures on the Value of Money, 1840, is, in so far, not
wrong when he says that the value in exchange of the precious metals is
still ultimately determined by the want of such commodities as are luxuries.
This last determines to what extent the production shall be extended by the
working of the poorest mines, whereas the wants of circulation can be met
as well by small as large quantities of the metals.</note> The supply of money is, in
the long run, dependent chiefly on the cost of production.
But since the cost of production in different mines is very different,
the value in exchange of the precious metals is determined
by the cost of producing them from the poorest mines
which must be worked in order to supply the aggregate
want of them. (See § <ref target="Section_110">110</ref>.)<note place='foot'>The
good or bad result of this production depends on many different elements
which may compensate on another. In California and Australia gold
is to be found in large quantities, and is easily mined; but the workmen
make large demands which the nature of the country renders it difficult to
meet. In the Harz mines, where the cost is scarcely covered,
(<hi rend='italic'>Lehzen</hi>, Hannover's
Staatshaushalt, 1853, I, 139), the shafts are sometimes 175-½ fathoms
deep, but this is made up for in a measure by the moderate demands of the
workmen and their skill in mining. Among the Mandingos, the auriferous
material is so rich that ⅓ per 1,000 of the weight of the sand is washed out into
pure gold in ten minutes (<hi rend='italic'>M. Park</hi>, Journal, 53 ff.,
addenda, XIX), while in Europe, where the proportion is only 1/100 per 1,000, mines are
still considered worth working. But then, what workmen there are there! In Peru, the
burdensome height of the mines above the level of the sea and the want of
combustible material more than counterbalance many favorable advantages,
while in Norway the cheapness of wood compensates for a great many disadvantages.
Another thing which contributes towards the uniformity of
the price of the precious metals is the circumstance that the great amount
of fixed capital required in the greater number of mining enterprises, postpones
for a long time the working of good mines as well as the abandonment
of poor ones.</note> The more unfavorable the conditions
<pb n='366'/><anchor id='Pg366'/>
of their production are, the greater is the quantity of
commodities which must be given for a pound of gold, silver
etc.; that producers may not be deterred from the prosecution
of their work. The extremes of the value in exchange
of money are dependent on the use for which it is intended.
That value cannot rise higher than to the point at
which single pieces of money become inconvenient on account
of their smallness, nor sink lower than the point at which a
similar inconvenience is produced by their too great size. In
both instances, it would become necessary to have recourse
to other instruments of exchange.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXIII. The Quantity Of Money A Nation Needs.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXIII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_123"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXIII.</head>
<head>The Quantity Of Money A Nation Needs.</head>

<p>
How great the amount of money needed in the entire
economy of any state is, cannot be always rightly determined,
either by the amount of the national resources, or by the
number of the population.<note place='foot'>Older writers have
estimated the amount of money necessary in a country
at 1/5, 1/10 (<hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>), 1/15, and even 1/30 of
the yearly income of a people (<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, II,
ch. 2.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>, Sur la Nature du Commerce,
p. 73, it is from 1/6 to 1/10 of the annual gross production of a nation.</note>
It is a very easy thing to refute
the opinion, that the aggregate amount of cash money in a
<pb n='367'/><anchor id='Pg367'/>
country constitutes an equivalent of the aggregate amount of
all other commodities to be found there at any time, in such a
way that the two pans of this great scales (<hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>) hang always
in a state of equilibrium, and that an increase of the
amount of money, the amount of all other commodities remaining
the same, must be productive of an exactly corresponding decrease in the value
of each piece of money.<note place='foot'><p><hi rend='italic'>Davanzati</hi>,
Lezione sulle Moneta, 1588, 32 ff., Cust., thinks that all terrestrial
things which serve to satisfy the wants of men are, by virtue of agreement,
equal in value to all the gold, silver and copper; and that the parts
comport themselves as the whole. The price of a commodity is based on
this, that men find in it as much of their <hi rend='italic'>beatitudine</hi> as
is afforded them by a given quantum of gold etc. Similarly,
<hi rend='italic'>Montanari</hi>, who adds as a limitation the quantity of money
<hi rend='italic'>spendibile in commercio</hi>. (Della Moneta, 45, 64, Cust.)
The same opinion leads <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi> to the singular conclusion,
that, as there is now in the world, ten times as much silver as there was previous
to the discovery of America, each single piece of silver, separately considered, and
taken in relation to such commodities as have not varied, is worth only one-tenth
of what it was then. <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>, here, starts out with the gross
assumption, shared even by <hi rend='italic'>Ganilh</hi>, Théorie, II, 386 ff., that
in the case of money the demand is always, relatively speaking, equally strong and
just as great as the supply, or as the amount in the market. (Works, II, 23 ff.)
Further, <hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi>, Esprit des Lois, XXII, 7, 8. Per contra,
however, see <hi rend='italic'>Montesquieu</hi>, ibid. XXII, 5, 6, and
<hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>, On Money and on the Balance of Commerce,
Essays II, 1752.
</p>
<p>
Hume knew perfectly well, that only circulating money and circulating
commodities operated on price, but failed to take the rapidity of circulation
into account. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Forbonnais</hi>, Eléments du Commerce, II, 212;
even <hi rend='italic'>Canard</hi>, Principes, ch. 6; <hi rend='italic'>Fichte</hi>,
Geschloss. Handelstaat, 93 ff., and <hi rend='italic'>Stein</hi>, Lehrbuch, 58.
Contested by <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>, Trade and Money considered, 140, a
work directed especially against the Mercantilistic essay, Britannia languens;
1680, by <hi rend='italic'>Mélon</hi>, Essai politique sur le Commerce, ch. 22;
<hi rend='italic'>Genovesi</hi>, Economia civile, 1764, II, 1, 15;
<hi rend='italic'>Steuart</hi>, Principles, II, ch. 28; <hi rend='italic'>Verri</hi>,
Meditazioni, XVII, 3 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Gedlumlauf, II, 40. The
simple taking of an inventory of most private resources which possess so much greater
value in other commodities than in money is enough to demonstrate the error of
<hi rend='italic'>Davanzati's</hi> doctrine. Thus, in France, in Necker's time, the cash
money in the kingdom was estimated at 2,200,000,000 livres, and the average value of the
wheat crop alone at 1,000,000,000. <hi rend='italic'>Necker</hi>, Législation et
Commerce des Grains, 1776, I, 215. Recently, <hi rend='italic'>Michel Chevalier</hi>,
estimated the amount of money in France at from 3-½ to 4 milliards, while the official
estimate of its immovable property alone was over 83 milliards.</p></note> Think
<pb n='368'/><anchor id='Pg368'/>
only of the great many commodities which are obtained and
consumed without any exchange whatever! Rather does the
amount of money necessary to keep the value in exchange of
the money employed in a people's public economy unaltered,<note place='foot'>When
money becomes dearer, less of it is of course needed; and when
cheaper, more, for the same purpose.</note>
depend on the cooperation of the following conditions:
</p>

<p>
A. <hi rend='italic'>The number and extent of such commercial transactions
as are effected by means of money</hi>;<note place='foot'>In contradistinction to
presents, acts of spoliation, but especially to barter.</note> a relation which,
evidently, increases (see § <ref target="Section_56">56</ref>, ff.) with every advance
in the division of labor. Hence the transition from serfdom and socage service
to free labor, from domestic-servant labor to day-labor and piece-work, from feudal
military service to that of paid and standing armies, from land-privileges and
allowances in produce, such as fire-bote etc., to the payment of officials in
money, from dues in produce to taxes in money, and regular lease-hold interests, from
requisitions to loans of money; in a word, from the barter-economy
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Naturalwirthschaft</foreign>) of the
middle ages to the trade by means of money in the higher
stages of civilization, that is, from the <q>feudal</q> to the <q>commercial</q>
system must, of itself, increase the money-need (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Geldbedarf</foreign>) of a people.
</p>

<p>
B. <hi rend='italic'>The rapidity of the circulation of money</hi>; because, in
most commercial transactions, one dollar which circulates ten
times a year really performs the same service as ten dollars
which go from hand to hand once in a year; just as the
economic use of a ship employed in the transportation of
commodities does not depend on its commodiousness alone
but on its rapidity also.<note place='foot'>The discoverer of this truth
is supposed by many to be <hi rend='italic'>Bandini</hi>, Discorso
economico, 1737, 141 f., Cust. <hi rend='italic'>Berkely</hi>, however, in the Querist,
1735, 477 f, writes: <q>A sixpence twice paid is as good as a shilling once paid.</q>
Much earlier yet, in 1797, <hi rend='italic'>Boisguillebert</hi>, Détail de la France,
II, 19, had the germ of this doctrine, but he confounds circulation with consumption.
And <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>, Considerations, II, 13 ff., presented it in 1691 with
great clearness, although he did not always remain true to his theory. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, éd. Daire, 64; <hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>, 159
ff., 382.</note> The economic use of money does
<pb n='369'/><anchor id='Pg369'/>
not depend on its amount simply. Says <hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>: <q>The
amount of the medium of circulation in a state must be equal
to the sum of the payments made in it in a given time, divided
by the sum of the times the former has, on an average,
changed owners within that time.</q><note place='foot'>If the number
of annual exchanges effected by 1 dollar = u; the total
number of dollars in the store of money = m; the rapidity of circulation,
that is the number of exchanges effected on an average by each dollar in a
year, = s: then is u = m s, s = u/m, m = u/s.</note> Under given economic
circumstances, the rapidity of the medium of circulation is,
taken all in all, not by any means an arbitrary matter. It
will happen very seldom that one man will purchase or consume
a commodity in order that another may not want
money.<note place='foot'>Since good money is so easily stored away and preserved, no one
is in haste to get rid of it. <hi rend='italic'>St. Chamans</hi>, N. Essai sur la
Richesse des Nations, 122 ff.</note> Were the greater number of money-earners (and in
nations with a healthy economic life this number is always
made up of men noted for the good management of their
own affairs) inclined to pay out the money which they had
taken in, rapidly, a very active production would prevail
everywhere; and this, in turn, supposes general commercial
freedom and great legal security. The less these conditions
are developed, the more difficult it becomes, not only to lay
out the money received to-day productively to-morrow, but
the more imperatively does a proper foresight demand, that a
reserve-fund should be maintained for times of necessity.
(See § <ref target="Section_43">43</ref>.)<note place='foot'>Among the Kurds, all the
money in their camps is used for head-ornaments for their women. (<hi rend='italic'>K.
Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, X, 887.)</note> Even in the same age and among the same
people, money moves most slowly under the influences of
troublesome and critical epochs; for the dangers of war
and sedition, of impending burdensome taxation, commercial
gluts and numerous cases of bankruptcy uniformly operate
to make the possessors of money hold anxiously to their
present supply.<note place='foot'>Thus, <hi rend='italic'>Sir
David North</hi>, Discourse on Trade, 1691, Postscr.</note>
</p>

<p>
In less civilized countries, the same condition of things leads
<pb n='370'/><anchor id='Pg370'/>
the people even to bury their money-treasures. In large
cities, the circulation of money is generally more rapid than
in the country districts; in a thickly populated than in a thinly populated country;
and in trade than in agriculture.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>,
Handbuch, 377, is of opinion that even in England £100,000 employed
in trade in land can scarcely effect exchanges to the amount of £1,000,000
in a year. The same sum employed for the same purpose in London,
in stocks and in the trade in commodities, will effect exchanges to the amount
of £160,000,000.</note> Every
improvement in the means of intercommunication tends to facilitate
it. The rich man possesses, as a rule, less money, relatively
speaking, than the poorer man. Hence, a more equable
division of a nation's resources among the people would increase
the amount of money needed.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cernuschi</hi>,
Mécanique de l'Échange, 1865, 132 ff.</note> While the concentration,
as to time, of circulation into few great terms of payment
is calculated of itself to cause a large sum of money to remain
idle in the interval,<note place='foot'>Thus <hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>
(ob. 1687) is of opinion that England needed as much
money as ½ of all its ground-rents amounted to, as the ¼ of all house-rents,
and 1/52 of all the wages of labor for a year; for the reason that ground-rents
are paid semi-annually, house-rents quarterly, and wages weekly. (Several
Essays, 179; Political Anatomy of Ireland, 116.) <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>, on the
other hand, assumes 1/50 of the wages of labor, ¼ of all the revenue of land owners, and
1/20 of the amount cash money taken in in a year by merchants. Of these
amounts, there should be always, at least, one-half in ready money on hand,
if commerce would not be brought to a stand-still. If leases were to be paid
for on short terms, a great saving of money would be possible. (Works, II,
13 ff.) <hi rend='italic'>Pinto</hi>, Traité du Crédit et de la Circulation, 34,
calls special attention to the case of Tournay, in which the commandant, during the
siege of 1745, made 7,000 florins serve him for seven weeks to pay the garrison; by
borrowing that sum anew every week from the inn-keepers etc.; which they,
again, had received from the soldiers.</note> its concentration in space in large
commercial cities must dispense with the necessity of a great number
of instruments of exchange. In England, it is customary
for every man in comfortable circumstances, as soon as he receives
any money, to deposit with a banker, and to make all
his payments by means of checks upon the latter. Cash
money is now employed by Londoners only in payment of
<pb n='371'/><anchor id='Pg371'/>
wages, and in trade between retail dealers and consumers.
The banker is there the common cashier of a great number of
private individuals, and is in a condition to make their payments
for them with a much smaller amount of money, especially
when they are to be made by one of his depositors to
another.<note place='foot'>If all were to commit their payments to the care of the same
banker, it would be possible to do with almost no money. But even now, if 100 separate
merchants were obliged to keep each 3,000 dollars in their money-chests
for unforseen contingencies, a banker might accomplish the same for them
with 50,000 dollars, because it is not probable that the unforseen contingencies
in question would occur to all at the same time.</note> This <q>union of money-chests</q>
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Kassenvereinigung</foreign>)
has been effected also on a larger scale; inasmuch as bankers,
in greater or smaller numbers, are wont to have one bank as
a center; and the country banks, in turn, to be in constant relation
with the great moneyed institutions of London, subject to
a species of general superintendence by the Bank of England.
These great monetary institutions have, so to speak, a common
rendezvous at the Clearing-House, where the greater part of
their payments are made by a mere off-setting of debits and
credits;<note place='foot'>In the London Clearing-House, in 1839, £954,401,600 were paid
by means of the use of £66,275,600 as a circulating medium, for the most part notes
of the Bank of England. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, Inquiry into the Currency
Principle, 27.) From May, 1868, until May, 1869, £7,068,078,000. (Statist. Journal, 1869,
229.) The New York Clearing House, in 1867, effected payments to the
amount of £5,735,031,900 (Ibid., 1867, 577), and in 1868, $30,880,000,000.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrb., 1869, II, 168.)</note>
and this bank is, as it were, the cashier-in-chief of
the nation, and in possession of almost the entire cash stores
of the English people.<note place='foot'>This system began in the middle of the
seventeenth century. (A Discourse of Trade Coyn and Paper Credit,
64.) As early a writer as <hi rend='italic'>Sir J. Child</hi>, N. Discourse on Trade,
46, says, that for some time, every man who had from £50 to £100 in money, sent it to
his banker, and that since that time, all the money flowed towards London and the
country was deprived of it. (127 ff.) As a rule, the goldsmiths were also bankers. One
such smith had at the time of the Great Fire of 1666, emitted £1,200,000 in
notes. (A Discourse etc., 67.) The Bank of England, as a money center,
dates from 1694. The London banks developed into intermediaries principally before the
time of the French Revolution. (<hi rend='italic'>Thornton</hi>, Paper-Credit of
Great Britain, 1802.) This remarkable institution had grown to vast dimensions
even in Thornton's time, although it has been much enlarged since
1825. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, 152 f.) Similar conditions among
almost all highly civilized peoples. Thus in Greece, compare
<hi rend='italic'>Becker</hi>, Charicles, I, 294. Concerning a person who had 14
talents' worth of resources, 26 minæ, and therefore three per cent. in cash, see Lysias,
adv. Diog., 6. In Rome, compare <hi rend='italic'>Polyb.</hi>, XXXII, 13.
<hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, pro Font., I, 1. For Italian analogous
cases, part of which may be traced back as far as the twelfth century, see
<hi rend='italic'>Lobero</hi>, Memorie storiche della Banca de S. Georgio, 1832; or the
Dutch <q>cassiere</q> Richesse de Hollande, I, 376, ff. In France an ever increasing
centralization of the money-trade is to be noticed in Paris (<hi rend='italic'>M.
Chevalier</hi>, Cours., III, 418); and now of the money-trade of Germany in Berlin.</note>
</p>

<pb n='372'/><anchor id='Pg372'/>

<p>
C. <hi rend='italic'>The quantity and rapidity of circulation of the representatives
of money.</hi> These, in so far as they are worthy of the
name here given them, depend on the credit of those who issue
them; that is, on the certainty that they shall, at the time fixed,
be redeemed in money. To this category belong the paper
money of the state which bears no interest, and the treasury-notes
of the state which do bear interest, bank notes, bills of
exchange, promissory notes, book-credits of private persons,
sometimes even certificates of the storage of goods in public
stores. It is estimated, that, at the present time, nine-tenths
of all the payments made in Great Britain are effected without
the aid of money, or even of bank-notes.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Fullarton</hi>, On the Regulation of Currencies, 1845. Among
the Dutch, the custom of using all commercial commodities as much as possible,
as a basis of the circulating medium, was much earlier developed.
(<hi rend='italic'>Child</hi>, Discourse on Trade, 65, 264 f.) In Great Britain,
the aggregate amount of bills of exchange put in circulation was, in 1839, £528,000,000,
which sum has been increased annually at the rate of about £24,000,000.
(<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, Inquiry into the Currency Principle, 26.) Between 1828
and 1847, there circulated at the same moment, on an average, £79,127,000 in bills of
exchange in England, and in Scotland, £17,380,000 (Athenæum, 1850, No. 175),
and in Great Britain and Ireland, from £180,000,000 to £200,000,000.
(<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, VI, 588,) According to
<hi rend='italic'>Macleod</hi>, the bills of exchange
and promissory notes together amounted to £500,000,000; bills of exchange,
bank-notes and bank-credits, to over £600,000,000. (Elements, 12, 325.)
<hi rend='italic'>Macleod</hi> calls the currency the sum total of all debts due by
every individual in the country. (Elements, 43.)</note> The capacity
of a person to make purchases does not depend simply on the
<pb n='373'/><anchor id='Pg373'/>
amount of money he possesses, but on his credit likewise.
The person who buys on credit, contributes as much to raise
the price of commodities as the person who buys for cash;
with this exception, however, that when the former eventually
fails to redeem his promise to pay, the price raised by him
quickly falls again.<note place='foot'>A case in England, in
1857, in which a house with £10,000 capital failed
with liabilities amounting to £900,000. (Report of the select Committee on
the Bank Act, 1858, XV.) Or where a speculator with £1,200 made purchases
on credit to the amount of £80,000, and then failed with a deficit of
£16,000. (<hi rend='italic'>Fawcett</hi>, Manual, 442 f.)</note> And, indeed, all the
various forms of credit, mentioned above, agree essentially in this, however
they may differ from one another in costliness and rapidity of
circulation.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXIV. The Quantity Of Money A Nation Needs.
(Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXIV.</head>
<head>The Quantity Of Money A Nation Needs. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
Of the three conditions above mentioned, it is evident that
the first operates on the amount of money needed, in a direction
opposite to that of the other two. The usual course of
development is this: among an advancing people, the number
of money transactions increases at first; later, when education
has become general, and the people have grown habituated
to the giving and receiving of credit, the circulation of money
is accelerated, and an increase of the substitutes for money
effected. Hence, it is perfectly natural that the money-need
of a people whose public economy is only half developed,
should, in proportion to the number of inhabitants, be greater,
not only than that of a people whose economy is wholly undeveloped,
but also, than that of a people whose public economy
has been carried to the highest point of perfection.<note place='foot'>Remarked
by as early a writer as <hi rend='italic'>Davenant</hi>, Works, IV, 106 ff. Compare,
however, II, 238. <hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, éd. Daire, 75 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Lord King</hi>, Thoughts on
the Effects of the Bank Restriction, 1804, 17 ff. Exhaustively treated by
<hi rend='italic'>Chevalier</hi>, Cours., III, 397 ff. He very much laments the fact
that the customs of France cause it to need from 3½ to 4 milliards of cash money, while
England does a much larger trade with 1,200 millions. (I, 207 ff.) In
France, it is said that the amount of money, in 1812, was 1,500,000,000
francs(?). (<hi rend='italic'>Peuchet</hi>, Statistique élémentaire, 473.) In Prussia,
in 1805, it was 90,000,000 thalers. (<hi rend='italic'>Krug</hi>,
Betracht. über den Nationalwohlstand des
preuss. St., I, 244.) The annual amount of production in the former country
was, 7,036,000,000 francs; in the latter it was estimated at 261,000,000
thalers, so that in Prussia the relation of money to national income was, as
1:2.9; in France, as 1:4.69.</note><note place='foot'><p>It
is scarcely possible to determine exactly the amount of money in a
country; for the reason that, outside of the suppositions of bankers etc.,
there is no authority which can be safely relied on, unless it be the reports
concerning the coinage, and of the emission of paper money. The information,
no less necessary, to be derived from the statistics of the importation
and exportation of money, the melting down of coin by gold smelters etc.,
can never be exactly obtained. In England, at the end of the sixteenth century,
the circulating medium was estimated at £4,000,000 (<hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>,
History of England, ch. 44, App.); under Charles II., at £6,000,000, when the population
was 6,000,000. (<hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>, Several Essays, 179.) About 1711,
<hi rend='italic'>Davenant</hi>, New Dialogues, 11 ff., mentions £12,000,000 as the
amount; and <hi rend='italic'>Anderson</hi>, Origin of Commerce, a., 1659, £16,000,000
in 1762. The circulation of gold, shortly before 1797, was estimated by
<hi rend='italic'>Rose</hi> at, at least, £40,000,000; by Lord
<hi rend='italic'>Liverpool</hi>, at £30,000,000; by <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, at
only £22,500,000. (History of Prices, V, 130 ff.) <hi rend='italic'>Moreau de
Jonnés</hi>, 1837, assumed £43,500,000 (Statistique, I, 329), and
<hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi> (Schwankungen der edlen Met., 1843, 147), £45,000,000.
<hi rend='italic'>Sir Robert Peel</hi>, estimated the amount in 1845 at £59,000,000, to
which was to be added an average of £28,000,000 in bank notes, after deduction made of
the metallic reserve. According to <hi rend='italic'>Jevons</hi>, the amount of British
money is now £80,000,000 in gold, £14,000,000 in silver, £1,000,000 in copper; the sum
total, including bullion and bank notes, after the deduction of their metallic
representatives, £134,000,000. (Economist, December, 1868, July, 1869.) In
France, <hi rend='italic'>Vauban</hi>, Dîme royale, 104 (Daire), estimated the cash
money at about 500,000,000 livres, over 750,000,000 francs, with which
<hi rend='italic'>Voltaire</hi>, Siècle de Louis, XIV, ch. 30, agrees so far as the
year 1683 is concerned. In 1730, <hi rend='italic'>Voltaire</hi>, assumes the amount to
be 1,200,000,000 of the coins of that time. <hi rend='italic'>Necker</hi>,
Administration des Finances, III, 66, estimated it, in 1784, at 2,200,000,000 livres;
<hi rend='italic'>Mollien</hi>, about 1806, at 2,300,000,000. The valuations in
Louis Philippe's time varied from 2,400,000,000 to 2,500,000,000 (Chamber
of Deputies, April, 13, 1847), and 4,000,000,000. (<hi rend='italic'>Blanqui.</hi>)
The valuations of 1870 were, according to <hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi>, 4 milliards;
and to <hi rend='italic'>Bonnet</hi>, from 5 to 6 milliards. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi>, L'Or et l'Argent, 383 ff., Euquête, 42. The
German Zollverein is said to have had, at the beginning of 1870
(<hi rend='italic'>Soetbeer</hi>) 480,000,000 or 520,000,000 thalers
(<hi rend='italic'>Weibezahn</hi>) cash money.
</p>
<p>
In Wirtemberg, <hi rend='italic'>Memminger</hi>, 1840, estimated the resources of the
country at 1,600,000,000 guldens, of which 36,000,000 were cash; and the yearly gross
income at 179,000,000 guldens; so that the money was 20 per cent. of the
latter and 2¼ per cent. of the former. The annual sales = 226,000,000.
Therefore the coin currency must have circulated on an average between six
and seven times in a year. In the electorate of Hesse, there were <hi rend='italic'>per
capita</hi> 4 thalers, 18 sgrs., 9 hellers, metallic money, and 3 thalers, 9 sgrs., 4
hellers, paper-money. (<hi rend='italic'>B. Hildebrand</hi>, Statist. Mitth., 1853,
185.) The amount of money in Naples, in 1840, was estimated at 42,000,000 ducats.
(<hi rend='italic'>Scialoja.</hi>) It has been estimated that, in 1830, Spain
possessed 1,725,000,000 francs. (<hi rend='italic'>Barrego
von Rottenkamp</hi>, 330.)</p></note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='374'/><anchor id='Pg374'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXV. Uniformity Of The Value In Exchange Of The
Precious Metals.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXV.</head>
<head>Uniformity Of The Value In Exchange Of The
Precious Metals.</head>

<p>
The peculiar properties of the precious metals described
above (§ <ref target="Section_120">120</ref>), explains satisfactorily enough, why, at
the same
<pb n='375'/><anchor id='Pg375'/>
time, but in different countries, they have more nearly the
same value in exchange than any other commodity whatever.
Like a fluid in tubes which communicate with one another,
the precious metals seek the one same level of value the whole
world over.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Montanari</hi>, Della
Moneta, 52 ff.</note> Only, it must not be supposed that every absolute
or relative increase of the amount of money in a country
must produce immediately a corresponding diminution of the
value of money; and in addition to this cause an exportation
of money.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>David Hume's</hi>
very influential essay on the balance of trade does not give
expression to this error, but he certainly was the occasion of making a great
many of his disciples advocate it. It is related to the error mentioned in
§ <ref target="Section_123">123</ref>. <hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, 101
(Daire) saw this point in a much clearer light. So did
<hi rend='italic'>Graumann</hi>, Gesammelte Briefe vom Gelde (1762), 12 ff.; 73
ff.</note> If the number of trade-transactions increases in
the same proportion as the amount of money, the value of
money remains entirely unaffected.<note place='foot'>This is
seen, for instance, when paper money is issued, in times when
trade is thriving, and is withdrawn when this conjuncture ceases.</note>
The same thing occurs
when the increased influx of money, instead of overflowing
the channels of circulation, only swells the volume in the
<pb n='376'/><anchor id='Pg376'/>
ready-money reservoirs. By means of these stores of ready
money, very large payments may be made by one nation to
another, without changing the circulation, or, therefore, the
value of money, in the slightest degree, on either side.<note place='foot'>Very
well elaborated by <hi rend='italic'>Fullarton</hi>, On the Regulation of Currencies, 71
ff., 139 ff. Compare, however, <hi rend='italic'>Becaria</hi>, Economica publica, IV, 4,
27. When England on the occasion of the removal of the bank restriction in 1821 and
1822, caused £9,520,759 and £5,356,788 to be stamped, this powerful demand
scarcely affected the gold-agio in Paris. (<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours,
III, 157.) And, on the other hand, the system of assignats, developed during the first
French Revolution, on so large a scale, had no influence on the price of silver
in the rest of Europe. (<hi rend='italic'>Lord King</hi>, Thoughts on the Bank
Restriction, 1804.) And so, <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, I, 205,
describes a very large increase of the medium of circulation, after which the prices of
commodities remained unchanged, corn fell, colonial products rose in price, both as they
had done before, and from causes inherent in the commodities themselves.
During the first years of the bank restriction, 1799-1801, grain rose very rapidly
in price, while all trans-Atlantic products sank. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, I,
232 ff.) The unusually large importation of wheat from January 1, 1846, to January 14,
1847, was paid in France by a decrease of the bank metallic reserve
(<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>encaisse</foreign>)
to the extent of 172,000,000 francs. (<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III,
470.) An experienced practitioner in England is of opinion that an increase of bank notes
to the amount of about £5,000,000 would not raise prices nor increase the
tendency to speculation, but only enlarge the deposits of the bankers. But,
if on the other hand, £5,000,000, by any sudden contingency, were to be put
into the hands of the working classes, this money would, for the most part,
enter immediately into circulation; the price of commodities would, therefore,
rise and continue to rise until that amount had come into closer fists, as
it would after some time. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, III, 156 ff., II, 323.)</note>
If, indeed, such payments should continue for a long time to flow
in the same direction, they would certainly influence the circulation,
and then produce a current in the opposite direction.
</p>

<p>
However, it may happen, that the value of money in different
countries may be permanently different, when there are
lasting difficulties in the way of the leveling influence of the
incoming or outgoing current of money. Thus, the precious
metals maintain a high value in those countries especially which
can obtain them only by giving commodities difficult of transportation
for them. If, for instance, an Englishman, anxious
to take advantage of the high value of money in Poland,
<pb n='377'/><anchor id='Pg377'/>
should cause Polish articles, such as wheat, wood, wool etc.,
to be imported into England, they would reach their destination
very much increased in price, because of the great cost
of transportation. Whether Poland or England would have
to bear this cost depends on the relations of supply and demand.
Certain it is, however, that the migration of money
is hereby rendered exceedingly difficult, forbidden even within
the limits of certain value-differences, especially where the
means of communication are universally bad. And so, the
smaller the number of countries which minister to the want of
commodities of precious-metal districts, the more must other
nations obtain the money they need only at second and third
hand; by means of which, naturally, money itself is made
dearer each time. Now, it is, as a rule, nations in a low stage
of civilization, that engage in the exportation of raw material,
and they are the worst adapted to engaging directly in the
carrying on of trade. When, therefore, they do not possess
gold or silver mines themselves, money-value is, as a rule,
highest with them; especially as the absence of legal security
and protection, which generally obtains there, makes the value
in use of the precious metals one of great urgency to them.<note place='foot'><p>This
explains the high price of gold in Farther Asia, which was formerly
separated from America, the principal source of supply of the precious
metals, by a journey around the earth, the then usual course of the world's
trade.
</p>
<p>
The precious metals are generally higher in country places than in large
cities, and in the interior than on the sea-coast. Since the public highways
etc. in Germany have been so much improved, the difference in the value of
money in upper and lower Germany has almost disappeared. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>,
in the Archiv der polit. Oek., III, 338.)</p></note><note place='foot'>Happy
beginning of this doctrine in <hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>, On the Balance of Trade.
Further, <hi rend='italic'>Thornton</hi>, The Paper Credit of Great Britain, ch. 11.
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, on the other hand, claims that gold and silver,
because they are costly superfluities are uniformly paid most dearly for, in the
richest countries. (Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 11, 3: Digr.)</note>
</p>

<p>
Direct legislative or governmental provisions may operate
in the same direction; as, for instance, the Japanese embargo
laws which, not long since, limited all foreign trade to two
<pb n='378'/><anchor id='Pg378'/>
foreign nations.<note place='foot'>Similarly in China, and even
in Upper Egypt, the China, so to speak, of antiquity! Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, II, 112 ff; <hi rend='italic'>Homer</hi>, Od., IV,
354 ff. The religion of the Egyptians prescribed to them a mode of life which was scarcely
practicable in foreign parts. They were systematically inspired with a horror
for everything foreign. They had a strong antipathy for salt, fish and pilots.
In Egyptian mythology, Osiris represents the Nile, Typhon the desert and
the sea! (<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, De Iside, 32.)</note>
I intend to treat of the influence of taxation
on the value of money, in a future work to be written by me,
on the Political Economy of the State.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXVI. Uniformity Of The Value In Exchange Of The
Precious Metals. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXVI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXVI.</head>
<head>Uniformity Of The Value In Exchange Of The
Precious Metals. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
Most nations can satisfy their want of the precious metals,
only through the medium of foreign trade. Hence they very
naturally look upon the cost of production of the articles of
export by the exchange of which they obtain the precious
metals either directly or indirectly, as the cost of production of
these metals themselves. But, the rule that all commodities of
equal cost of production have equal value in exchange is applicable
only within the limits of the same economic territory
(§ <ref target="Section_107">107</ref>), for it is
frequently physically impossible, and still more
frequently rendered difficult, by laws, customs and states of
mind to transfer factors of production from one country to
another simply on account of the more advantageous market
they would there find. Thus, for instance, when England
exchanges its cotton and woolen goods, and steel instruments
for Mexican silver, the cost of production of the two equivalents
may be very different, and the one party in this trade
may permanently make a larger profit than the other.<note place='foot'>The
other party, of course, makes a profit also. He is in a better condition
than if he wished to produce the desired commodity in his own country.</note> According
to § <ref target="Section_101">101</ref>, that party will be most favored in whom the
desire of holding to his own commodities is farthest from being
<pb n='379'/><anchor id='Pg379'/>
out-weighed by his desire to obtain the other. But, at
bottom, silver is no very indispensable article. Especially in
highly civilized commercial communities, it is easiest to obtain
substitutes for it, while the principal articles of English
export are, for the most part, objects with which to satisfy
wants rather urgent in their nature, very general, and of rapid
growth; and which, besides, are not, to any extent, difficult
of transportation. It is not a matter of surprise, therefore,
that English commodities, in silver countries, are generally
sold above the mean price between the English cost of production
and the Mexican, for instance, or the cost of procuring
them elsewhere; and that silver, on the other hand, is sold
in England, under the same. But this lowers the price of the
precious metals of the latter country in general. Hence a
change in the channels of international trade, which in most
countries is the only source of gold and silver, may make the
price of the precious metals dearer in one place and cheaper in
another, even when the conditions of the production of mines
remain entirely unaltered.<note place='foot'><p>The
first clear germ of this doctrine, which is one of the most important
theoretical principles of international-trade politics, is to be found in
<hi rend='italic'>David Hume</hi>, On Interest; <hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>,
Nature du Commerce, 226, 369 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, Principles,
ch. 7. <q>Gold and silver having been chosen for the general medium
of circulation, they are, by the competition of commerce, distributed in such
proportions amongst the different countries of the world, as to accommodate
themselves to the natural traffic which would take place if no such metals
existed, and the trade between countries were purely a trade of barter.</q>
<hi rend='italic'>Rebenius</hi>, Oeff. Credit, I, 29 ff. Still further developed,
especially by <hi rend='italic'>John Stuart Mill</hi>, Elements, 1821, III, 4, 13 f.;
<hi rend='italic'>Torrens</hi>, The Budget, 1844. <hi rend='italic'>John
Stuart Mill</hi>, Essays on some unsettled Principles of Political Economy, 1844,
No. 1, and Principles, III, ch. 19, § 3, 5th ed.: <q>The opening of a new branch
of export trade from England; an increase in the foreign demand for English
products, either by the natural course of events or by the abrogation of duties;
a check to the demand in England for foreign commodities, by the laying
on of import duties in England, or of export duties elsewhere; these and
all other events of similar tendency, should make the imports of England,
bullion and other things taken together, no longer an equivalent for the exports;
and the countries which take her exports would be obliged to offer
their commodities, and bullion among the rest, on cheaper terms, in order to
re-establish the equation of demand; and thus England would obtain money
cheaper, and would acquire a generally higher range of prices.</q>
</p>
<p>
Obscurely surmised by <hi rend='italic'>Beccaria</hi>, E.P., 3, 18, and even by
<hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, Della Moneta, II, 2. <hi rend='italic'>Senior's</hi>
admirable work, Three Lectures on the Cost of Obtaining
Money, 1830, follows up the thought that every country obtains indigenous
and foreign products at a cost which grows smaller in the same
proportion as the productiveness of its people's labor is large. This would,
certainly, explain why it is that perhaps one hundred English days' work in
cotton manufactures will exchange against as much silver as is produced by
two hundred days' work in Mexican mines and foundries. This would not,
by any means, produce a lowering of the price of the precious metals relatively
to other English commodities, but the influence would be felt equally
by all the products of English national industry.</p></note> In an isolated country, any
<pb n='380'/><anchor id='Pg380'/>
amount of gold and silver whatever would, finally, as soon as
the people had grown accustomed to it, suffice for all the
wants of circulation. But, in commerce with the rest of the
world, the greater quantity and greater cheapness of the
precious metals, that is of those commodities which are most
current and are possessed of the greatest amount of economic
energy, must, without fail, be of the greatest advantage to a
country; and this irrespective of the fact that they are under
certain circumstances the symptom of an especially highly
developed public economy. If we suppose two nations, A and
B, equal in every other point, but that A has twice as much
money as B, and that prices are twice as high there as in B;
yet, with the same effort or sacrifice, A could levy twice as
many taxes as B. In case of a war between them, A might
pay in ready money for the necessities of an army which had
invaded B, with one-fourth the sacrifice which B would have
to make to support its army in A, if we reverse the case, and
suppose that B had invaded A.<note place='foot'>To be found in germ in
<hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>, Nature du Commerce, 1755, 249 ff.
307. <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, 14. <hi rend='italic'>Kaufmann</hi>,
Untersuchungen, I, 75 ff. Many of the doctrines of the so-called Mercantile System, of
which I shall treat in my projected work on the Political Economy of Commerce, have
given expression to this truth in an inexact and exaggerated way; but they were not
entirely erroneous, as is supposed by the adherents of Hume and Smith.
However, <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>, Principles II, ch. 19, § 2, does not fully
admit the degree of the cheapness of money in England usually assumed. According
to him it is wants of luxury (luxury-wants) become such through habit,
that produce <q>the dearness of living in England.</q></note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='381'/><anchor id='Pg381'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Chapter IV. History Of Prices.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Chapter IV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Chapter IV.</head>
<head>History Of Prices.</head>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXVII. Measure Of Prices,&mdash;Constant Measure.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXVII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXVII.</head>
<head>Measure Of Prices,&mdash;Constant Measure.</head>

<p>
If we had a measure of prices with the same universality of
application and the same unchangeableness as the measure of
length, which is determined by astronomical calculation, we
should be able, not only to clearly understand all the data relating
to value, that is to say, a not unimportant portion of historical
science, but we should, moreover, have a practical means to
condition and fix even perpetual annuities, in such a way, that
they would always afford the same economic and purchasing
power to the person receiving them. No wonder, therefore,
that political economists since Petty's time have zealously labored to find a
<emph>constant</emph> measure of prices.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi>
considers the search for a measure which could be applied both to
land and labor as one of the principal problems of Political Economy. (Political
Anatomy of Ireland, 62 ff.) <hi rend='italic'>Sir J. Steuart</hi>, Principles, III, ch.
I, took the matter very easy by considering the so-called <q>coin of account,</q> for
instance, <q>bank-money,</q> as an invariable value-magnitude. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, Grundsätze der National Œkonomie, II, 441 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Cazaux</hi>, Economie politique et privée, 1825, 16 ff., has a not
uninteresting study on this subject; but he goes, throughout his argument, on the
assumption that the rate of interest is the price of money! If the rate of interest in
two countries = I and i, the prices of the same commodity = P and p, the true
thing-values, V and v; then we have v: V:: i p: I P!</note> If by this we
understand a species of goods such that it should always maintain
equal exchange-power, as compared with all other commodities,
<pb n='382'/><anchor id='Pg382'/>
the idea of a <q>constant</q> measure of prices is unthinkable.
We would have to suppose here, that not a single
kind of goods varied in its price; since, otherwise, at least as
compared with those that varied in price, the measure of
prices would itself be variable.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>,
Trade and Money, 181. Before him, and quite correctly, <hi rend='italic'>Montanari</hi>,
Della Moneta, I, p. 84 ff., compares the means employed of measuring
one commodity by another, to the means used to estimate time in terms of
space, as when it is measured by the revolutions of the hands of a clock, and
again, space in terms of time.</note> But we may, indeed, search
for a kind of goods such that its inherent elements and the elements
peculiar to it, so far as it is itself concerned, and which
go to determine price, should exert the same uniform influence
at all times. If there be such a kind of goods, and its value
in exchange as compared with other kinds of goods were to
vary, we should be certain, at least, that the cause of the
change was not in it, but in them; that <emph>it</emph> had not grown
dearer or cheaper, but that they had grown cheaper or
dearer. Such a kind of goods would have these two characteristics:
A. A given amount of it would, under all circumstances,
have the same value in use for the same number
of persons. B. It would require, under all circumstances,
the same cost to produce it, and therefore the supply might
always keep pace exactly with the number of those who demanded
it.<note place='foot'>The solvability or capacity to pay of buyers cannot be taken into
consideration here, because it is synonymous with the amount of counter-values which
are to be measured.</note> In this way the supply and demand of this kind
of goods, abstraction made of the quantity of counter-values,
would preserve forever the same invariable relation.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXVIII. Value In Exchange Estimated In Labor.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXVIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXVIII.</head>
<head>Value In Exchange Estimated In Labor.</head>

<p>
Adam Smith is of opinion that different kinds of goods, no
matter how far removed from one another they may be in
<pb n='383'/><anchor id='Pg383'/>
time or space, have equal value in exchange, when an equal
quantum of human labor may be purchased by their means.
He adopts, because of the great differences in work, the average
work of the common manual laborer. One work-day, and
the sacrifice of <q>rest, freedom and happiness</q> therewith connected,
are, under all circumstances, attended with the same
inconvenience (value). If at one time this day's labor will exchange
for more, and at another for less, of any kind of goods, it is only because the price
of the latter has fallen or risen.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>,
Wealth of Nations, I, ch. 5. Similarly <hi rend='italic'>Luther</hi>, vom Kaufhandel:
Werke, ed. <hi rend='italic'>Walch</hi>, X, 1098 f. <hi rend='italic'>B. Franklin</hi>
considered the labor employed in the production of wheat as the best measure of prices.
(Letter to Ld. Kames: Works, ed. <hi rend='italic'>Sparks</hi>, VII.) As Adam Smith, so
also <hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, Richesse commerciale, I, 371 f.;
<hi rend='italic'>Kraus</hi>, Staatswirthschaft, I, 84,; v.
<hi rend='italic'>Schlözer</hi>, Anfangsgründe, I, 41. Also
<hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, in the second and succeeding editions
of his Principles, ch. I, 6, and Definitions, ch. 8, 9. The Measure of
Value, 1823. <hi rend='italic'>Zachariä</hi>, Vierzig Bücher, VII, 53 f., maintains
that, at least within the limits of every separate nation, the average labor-power of one
man is invariable. Assuming this principle, therefore, to be true, the means
of subsistence necessary to support a laborer for one work-day constitutes, indirectly,
a measure of prices. <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, I, 56, says that
the amount of a day's wages is always a better measure of the price of the precious
metals than the price of wheat. Even in 1750, <hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, Della
Moneta, II, 2, had denied the impossibility of an entirely invariable measure of price
in this world of change, but he considered man himself the least variable of
measures, and in a country where slavery prevailed, slaves. He thought
that the <hi rend='italic'>macuta</hi> of the negroes were a part of the average price
of slaves. Practically, Adam Smith's proposed measure was used in the French constitution
of 1791, in as much as it provided that participation in primary assemblies should depend
on the participant's paying an annual tax equal to the wages of three days' work, and
eligibility as an <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>èlecteur</foreign>, on
the possession of an income equal in value to the wages paid for two hundred days'
day-labor. <hi rend='italic'>Owen</hi> endeavored to base the value of the paper money
in circulation in his Utopian commonwealth, not on any metal of a certain weight or
stamp, but on hours of labor as the unit. (<hi rend='italic'>Reybaud</hi>,
Réformateurs Contemporains, I, 255.)</note>
</p>

<p>
But we may ask whether the same sacrifice of liberty is as
great a hardship to a Russian as to a Bedouin; or whether
the sacrifice of an equal amount of rest is as hard for the New
Englander as it is for a Turk, or as difficult to endure on a
hot day in July as in the cold of winter. Besides, we have
<pb n='384'/><anchor id='Pg384'/>
here to do primarily only with value in exchange; and that
value in the case of day-laborers' work is subject to very
great fluctuations.
</p>

<p>
The elements on which the demand and supply of labor
depend are not, in themselves, invariable, nor do their variations
usually compensate for one another. In progressive nations,
the value in use of day-laborers' work increases as well
as the capacity of their employers to pay them; but, at the
same time, as a rule, and at least relatively speaking, the supply
of labor diminishes on account of the increase in the cost
of production of workmen. Precisely the reverse of this happens
in nations in their decline, and in over-populated nations.
The workman is subjected to the necessity of accepting distress-prices
for his work, and especially of accepting them for a
long space of time.<note place='foot'>The wretched condition,
until within a short time since, of the Irish working
class, is well known; how they dwelt in mud cabins without windows,
board-floors or chimneys etc., in the same apartment with their pigs; how they lived
almost exclusively on potatoes, and went about in rags. These same Irish,
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>coelum, non animum mutantes</foreign>,
received in North America for the coarsest kind of labor, 50 to 75 cents wages, besides
wheat bread and meat three times a day, coffee and sugar twice a day, butter once, and
seven or eight glasses of whisky or brandy. (<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>,
Lettres sur l'Amérique du Nord, I, 159.)</note> How often it happens that, if only
transitorily, when wages are declining, work improves, and <hi rend='italic'>vice
versa</hi>.<note place='foot'>Thus in Mauritius, the immigration of the coolies has
produced a decrease of negro wages, but an increase of negro industry. In the Barbadoes,
the negroes are more industrious and their wages lower than in Jamaica. The
wages of good workmen, as for instance during the commercial crisis in Manchester,
often sink, while the wages of bad workmen rise; as, for example,
in a village through which a railroad is made to pass. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi> Inquiry, ch. 1; <hi rend='italic'>Sartorius</hi>,
Abhandlungen, 1806, I, 16 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Lotz</hi>, Revision, I,
99 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III, 88 f.</note>
</p>

<p>
Ricardo's school employs, as the measure of the price of
various kinds of goods, the quantity of work by which the
goods themselves are produced.<note place='foot'>Besides the passages cited in §
<ref target="Section_107">107</ref>, compare also <hi rend='italic'>Harris</hi>, On
Money and Coins, II, 1757 f.; <hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi> also preceded
<hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>. See the German translation
of <hi rend='italic'>Say</hi>, II, 435, 507.</note> It is evident that the same
<pb n='385'/><anchor id='Pg385'/>
amount of common labor produces very different results, according
as it is well or badly conducted. Hence Ricardo
must have used the word labor in the sense of labor ideally
adapted to its end. But in this way it would be impossible to
reduce all the different kinds of labor to a common denominator.<note place='foot'>The
introduction of the words <q>the socially necessary time of labor</q>
into the formulæ does not make the measure any more practical for political
economists or for socialists.</note>
Nor could the peculiar effects of capitalization, or the
influence of the natural or artificial limitations of competition
be estimated in terms of such a measure. (See §§ <ref target="Section_47">47</ref>,
<ref target="Section_107">107</ref>, 189.)<note place='foot'><hi
rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>, who reduces all the cost of production to land and labor,
considers the <q>at par</q> between these two to be this: that the labor of the meanest
slave corresponds to the quantity of land which the owner is obliged to
employ for his support, and the support of the slave and of the children
who are to take his place. (Nature du Commerce, 42.) The Physiocrates
thought that the internal (<hi rend='italic'>innere</hi>) value of two commodities stood
in the same relation to each other as the area of land directly or indirectly necessary
to their production. <hi rend='italic'>Schlettwein</hi>, Grundfeste der Staaten, 1792,
230.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXIX. The Precious Metals The Best Measure Of
Prices.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXIX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_129"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXIX.</head>
<head>The Precious Metals The Best Measure Of Prices.</head>

<p>
It is no more possible to find a constant measure of prices
than it is to square the circle. (<hi rend='italic'>J. B. Say.</hi>) If the two magnitudes
to be compared are separated from each other in
space but not in time, the precious metals constitute not only
the best measure of their prices, but also a very good one.
But the precious metals are subject to very sensible and accidental
variations in price in long periods of time. If, therefore,
we would compare sums of money belonging to different
times with one another, we must first construct a price-current
list of all the more important articles of commerce for the
time in question, and in the quantities they are needed in every
<pb n='386'/><anchor id='Pg386'/>
day life. We would next have to calculate the average of
these mean prices, and thus to determine the relative value of
the amounts to be estimated.<note place='foot'>The so-called <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Sachwerth</foreign> (thing-value, real-value) of
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, St. Untersuchungen,
101 ff. Thus <hi rend='italic'>Poulett Scrope</hi> recommended a <q>tabular standard,</q>
to be officially established and renewed from time to time, to serve as an
anchor to those persons who wished permanently to fix their money in such a
manner as to make it exchangeable for an equal value in <emph>things</emph>. (Principles
of Political Economy, 1833, 406.) Something of this kind was tried for 50
commodities, between 1833 and 1837, by <hi rend='italic'>Porter</hi>, Progress of the
Nation, 1st ed., II, 236 ff., then for 40 commodities by <hi rend='italic'>Jevons</hi>
in the Statistical Journal, 1865. Of course, all commodities of a given price are not
equally important in this respect. Thus, for instance, a fluctuation in the price of
diamonds would have no effect on the thing-value or real-value of a day's wages, but
it certainly would on the thing-value of a princely income. There are some
excellent remarks on this very important subject in <hi rend='italic'>Lowe's</hi> work,
On the Actual Condition of England, chs. 8 and 9. The controversy carried on
between <hi rend='italic'>Jevons</hi>, A serious Fall in the Value of Gold, and its
social Effects, 1863; Statist. Journal, 1865; and <hi rend='italic'>Laspeyres</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrb., 1864, 81 ff.;
1871, I, 296 ff; in which the former recommends the geometric mean of the
relative prices of separate commodities at different points of time, in order
to calculate the average relative price: and the latter, as usual, the arithmetical
mean, is very thoroughly reviewed and criticised by <hi rend='italic'>Drobisch</hi>, who
shows that neither of these methods is sufficient, but that the quantity of every
separate commodity must also be taken into account, for which he furnishes
practical formulæ. (Math. phys. Berichte der <hi rend='italic'>K.</hi> Sächs.
Gesellsch., 1871, I, 143 ff, 416 ff.) It is certain that a fixed income in money could
maintain its real value or thing-value (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Sachwerth</foreign>) just as little if the cwt. of bread
rose by as many dollars as the cwt. of pepper had fallen; as if the increasing
price of bread depended on a decreasing price of pepper.</note> The person who should
limit his comparison to a few species of commodities, says von
Mangoldt, would lose in exactness what he gained in comprehensibility.
</p>

<p>
In every such list, the wages of a day would occupy a very
important place. The desire of exerting an influence over the
lives and actions of other men, and the desire of relatively
greater social distinction as compared with the social distinction
of others, is very general; and there is scarcely any better
evidence that it has been attained than the possession of the
power of controlling a large number of days' work. The man
who can keep one thousand day laborers is certainly, in a politico-economical
<pb n='387'/><anchor id='Pg387'/>
sense, an important personage. Besides, the
height of day-wages has the most direct influence on the price
of many other commodities.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>,
Outlines, 187. In addition to this, we may draw from the thing-value
of a day's wages a right conclusion as to the economic condition of the
majority of the people; and assuming the customary division of the national
wealth, also as to the degree, to which the people have subjected the forces
of nature to their service.</note>
</p>

<p>
No less important is the price of wheat, or rather of the
principal article of food of the people, for the time being, with
which the price of inland raw material&mdash;in so far as it can be produced from the
same soil alternately with wheat&mdash;and, in the long run, also the wages of labor,
are so essentially connected.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, ch.
22, refuted, indeed, only the view that an increase in the
wages of labor produced by the higher prices of corn, would necessarily
make all goods or products of labor, correspondingly dearer.</note>
The same indispensable necessity of wheat which
causes its price to fluctuate so largely from year to year, and
from month to month, promotes the uniformity of its average
price,<note place='foot'>Compare § <ref target="Section_103">103</ref>. In Paris, in
1817, the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>setier</foreign> of wheat cost
March 5, 55½ francs; April 2, 57 fr.; April 23, 60 fr.; May 14, 63 fr.; May 21, 66 fr.;
May 28, 75 fr.; June 4, 82 fr.; June 11, 92 fr. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History
of Prices, II, 17.)</note> when many years are taken into the
account.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>, 98. When
<hi rend='italic'>Condillac</hi> asserts that wheat is the best measure of
prices, he adds, when free trade in wheat obtains. (Commerce et Gouvernement,
1, 23.) <hi rend='italic'>Fichte</hi>, on the other hand, while advocating the despotic
guidance of all trade by the state, would employ wheat as the fundamental measure
of prices. (Geschl. Handelstaat, 47 ff.) That grain does not afford a
good measure of prices in very highly cultivated nations nor in barbaric
ones, see <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, II, Aufl., 451.</note><note place='foot'>The
average price must be based on the prices of a great many years,
since crops vary not only from year to year in price, but from decade to
decade. See <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Nationalökonomik des Ackerbaues, § 152, and
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Kornhandel und Theuerungspolitik, 47 ff. Great wars are
wont to disturb agriculture in such a manner that the price of corn is very much increased
by them. Hence, it is not unfrequently possible to use the prices of
grain as a species of barometer to determine the real pressure of a war upon
the economic life of a people. Judging by this standard, England suffered
much less from the War of the Roses in the fifteenth century, than from the
civil wars in the seventeenth; and less than France from the religious wars
of the sixteenth. The war year 1631-2, in which Gustavus Adolphus and the
emperors had to spare the country, must have been far less oppressive for
Saxony than the later Swedish campaigns. <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, in the Tübinger
Zeitschrift, 1857, 471.</note>
<pb n='388'/><anchor id='Pg388'/>
(<hi rend='italic'>Malthus.</hi>) If, by reason of great progress made in the art of
agriculture, the cost of the production of wheat should fall to
one-half of what it was, a large increase of population would
certainly not be delayed long. And so, on the other hand,
there would be a decrease of population if, by the destruction
of artificial means of irrigation, or other steps in the direction
of a retrogressive civilization, the cost of the production of
wheat were to be permanently increased.
</p>

<p>
But even the average price of wheat, during a long series
of years, is not entirely invariable. The increasing consumption
compels the nation, as a whole, to provide for its requirement
of wheat from less fertile sources, which increases its
price generally. It is true that the progress of the science of
agriculture and of the corn-trade counteract this tendency,
retard the advance of the price of wheat, and may, for a time,
produce an opposite tendency. It is true, also, that the people
are induced by their most general and vital interests to take
advantage of this possibility. But spite of the frequency of
exceptions to it, the rule remains.<note place='foot'><p>Most countries go through these
successive periods in their corn trade: in the first, exportation preponderates; in the
second, there is an equilibrium; in the third, importation preponderates.
(<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, III, 74 ff.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Tacit.</hi>,
Ann., XII, 43. Omitting the two dearest and the two cheapest years,
the Prussian provinces were circumstanced as follows:
</p>
<p>
In The Whole Kingdom, the price of Rye, 1816 to 1837, was  40. silver groschens.
The population per square mile, 2,776<lb/>
In Prussia, 32.2 silver groschens, and 1,827<lb/>
In Posen, 34.3 silver groschens, and 2,180<lb/>
In Brandeburg, Pomerania, 38.4 silver groschens, and 2,093<lb/>
In Saxony, 40.3 silver groschens, and 2,366<lb/>
In Silesia, 38.0 silver groschens, and 3,612<lb/>
In Westphalia, 47.7 silver groschens, and 3,600<lb/>
In Rhine Province, 49.4 silver groschens, and  5,078
</p>
<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, I, § 183. As to when it may be assumed that the
price of corn has remained unchanged, see <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, loc. cit.,
125 ff.
</p></note> If, therefore, we wished
to so fix a perpetual annuity that it should always be worth
<pb n='389'/><anchor id='Pg389'/>
as much money as a certain quantity of wheat had cost, on
an average, during the three preceding decades, the thing-value
of this annuity would, on the whole, rise with an advance
in civilization.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Petty</hi> recommended the average
daily food necessarily required by one
man as the measure of price, estimated on the basis of the cheapest means
of subsistence. (Polit. Anatomy of Ireland, 62 ff.) <hi rend='italic'>Thaer</hi> used as
such a measure the smallest day's wages; as he supposed, expressed in rye, that is,
1/9 of the Prussian <hi rend='italic'>scheffel</hi>. Similarly,
<hi rend='italic'>Malthus</hi>, in his first edition, and <hi rend='italic'>Buquoy</hi>,
Theorie der Nationalwirthschaft, 240. But this is simply to substitute
for wheat an arbitrarily determined quantity and quality of the same as
a measure of prices. For practical experiments of this kind, made by the
depreciation of paper money during the French Revolution, see <hi rend='italic'>M.
Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III, 98; and Constitution de 1795, V, 68, VI, 173.
<hi rend='italic'>Count Soden</hi>, Nat. Œk., II, 338 f., demands that all taxes,
salaries of state officials etc., should be regulated in accordance with the price of
corn. This same view has been suggested recently in many German States.</note>
To obtain something that would remain
the same, it would be necessary to combine wheat with
at least one chief commodity, the intrinsic basis of the price of
which had a development independent of the price of grain;
but the whole to be made payable in money. The precious
metals are, in many respects, so diametrically opposed in properties
to wheat, in their dispensableness, transportable character
and durability, for instance, that these two classes of
commodities are best adapted to act as counter-balances to
each other.<note place='foot'>Recognized generally by <hi rend='italic'>Locke</hi>,
Considerations 24. Further, <hi rend='italic'>Galliani</hi>, Della Moneta, II, 2;
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, I, ch. 5. <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, N. Œk.,
II, Aufl., 127, maintains that a constant measure of price, such as would enable a person
to stipulate for a salary for instance that would be always of the same value,
is impossible. Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrb., 1871, 315 ff.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXX. History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of
Life.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXX.'/>
<anchor id="Section_130"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXX.</head>
<head>History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of Life.</head>

<p>
The higher civilization advances, the dearer all those commodities
in the production of which the factor nature with
<pb n='390'/><anchor id='Pg390'/>
value in exchange predominates are apt to become; and the
cheaper, on the other hand, all those in which labor and capital
play the principal productive part.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>J.
Tucker</hi>, Four Tracts on political and commercial Subjects,
28 ff., who maintains that it is a rule, almost without exception, that <q>operose
or complicated manufactures</q> are cheapest in rich countries; <q>raw materials,</q>
in poor ones. Thus, for instance, corn (?), garden products in the
former; cattle, wool, milk, skins, flesh-meat, in the latter. Ships and movable
property are cheaper in the former, whereas wood may be said to be almost the
free product of nature here. See especially <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, Wealth
of Nations, ch. 11, Digr.</note> This is accounted for,
not only by the almost unlimited capacity of labor and capital
to be increased, while the natural forces which have value in
exchange are susceptible of increase to so small an extent;
but also, and especially, because new additions of labor and capital
are wont to cause relatively smaller results in the production
of raw material, and relatively larger ones in industry and commerce. (§
<ref target="Section_33">33</ref>, ff).<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>,
Outlines 119 f., makes the following calculation: Of the 15d.
which a loaf of bread costs in England, 10d. goes to buy the wheat, the other
5d. to the miller, baker etc. If now, we suppose, that in consequence of an
increased demand, and therefore of increased production under more unfavorable
circumstances, the price of wheat should rise to 20d., the cost of production
would possibly, because of an improved division of labor, come down
to 3-¾d., and hence the price of the loaf of bread would be increased to 23-¾d.
It is quite the reverse in the case of lace, because here a piece of raw material
worth only 2 shillings may, by reason of the labor expended on it, become
worth as much as £105. If the consumption of lace should increase
so that the value of the raw material rose to 4 shillings, the simultaneous
decrease of the cost of manufacture to the extent of one-quarter of the aggregate
price, would leave the price of the manufactured article £78, 19s.</note>
</p>

<p>
Hence, from the relations the prices of the different classes
of commodities bear to one another, we may draw important
conclusions as to the degree of civilization which a country has
attained. The above law also affords an explanation of the
fact, that a young nation, which has made no great strides in
the way of development, and in which, of course, the production
of raw material preponderates, draw their commercial
and manufactured necessaries, by way of preference, from
<pb n='391'/><anchor id='Pg4391'/>
precisely the most highly civilized foreign nations. The latter
are in a condition, and accustomed, to give the largest quantity
and the best quality of manufactured articles for a required
quantity of raw material; and, of course, <hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>. Hence,
in this intercourse of nations, the most urgent want, and the
completest and easiest possibility of satisfying it, meet.<note place='foot'>When,
for instance, the inhabitants of the Baltic coasts, by way of preference,
kept up their relations with the Hanseatic cities, the Dutch and English,
that is with the most important industrial and commercial nations in
their own sphere, they in all this pursued only their own interest. As to
how this intercourse between <q>old</q> and <q>new</q> countries is susceptible of
the very highest development, see <hi rend='italic'>Torrens</hi>, The Budget: On
Commercial and Colonial Policy, 1844, and earlier, <hi rend='italic'>Wakefield</hi>,
England and America, II, 1823.</note> Only
very highly civilized mother-countries can hold fast to colonial
possessions in our day.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXI. History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of
Life. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXI.'/>
<anchor id="Section_131"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXI.</head>
<head>History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of Life. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
A. In the case of a great many raw materials, we repeatedly
find the following to be the course of development. In
the lower stages of civilization, they grow of themselves, and
in such quantities that a small amount of labor, and that only
the labor of occupation, more than suffices to satisfy the small
demand for them. Here, naturally enough, the price of raw
materials is very low. After this, it rises with every advance
made in civilization, for two reasons: first, because the demand
becomes greater and greater; and then, because the
naturally free sources of production, called into requisition by
other wants, now flow less and less abundantly.<note place='foot'>The clearing up
of primeval forests, the cultivation of natural meadows, etc.</note> This rise in
price continues until the point is reached at which it becomes
customary, instead of the mere occupation of the free gifts of
nature, to bring forth the commodities in question by the more
<pb n='392'/><anchor id='Pg392'/>
laborious process of production proper. From this time forward,
the usual seeking of prices for a level requires that our
commodity should, like all others which suppose an equal sacrifice
of the means of production, claim an equal value in exchange.
If from any peculiar causes, the production of this
commodity is not at all possible, or if it is capable of no great
extension, its price, which would under the circumstances, be
limited only by the purchasing power of the buyer, might
attain the utmost extreme reached in prices under the spur of
vanity or of the mere love of the commodity itself. The
latter is true especially in the case of venison;<note place='foot'>In
Hungary, during the sixteenth century, the choicest venison was consumed
by plebeians and nobles alike. <hi rend='italic'>Herberstein</hi>, Rer. Moscov. Comm., 97.
In Russia, even the lowest classes not unfrequently partake of roast hare and
duck etc. <hi rend='italic'>Kohl</hi>, Reise in Russland, II, 386. Still, in St.
Petersburg, wild-fowl game rose between the time of Peter the Great and Alexander I. 600
per cent. in price. (<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch, I, 368.) In Pittsburg, in
1807, mutton, beef and veal cost from 4 to 6 cents a pound, and game only from 3 to 4-½
cents a pound. (<hi rend='italic'>Melish</hi>, Travels through the United States, II, 57.)
The more the game laws are enforced, the longer does the low price of game continue,
especially when it is not easy for the poor to procure them. The moderns
have seldom thought of raising game artificially; among the Romans, artificial
raising was confined to the hare and fieldfare. (<hi rend='italic'>Varro</hi>, R.R., III,
12 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>Columella</hi>, R.R., VIII, 10.) Hence, the enormous prices paid
for game, of which <hi rend='italic'>Pliny</hi>, H. N. X., 43, relates an example from the
time of the emperors. On the other hand, Polybius assures us that, in his time, game
was to be had as good as gratis in Lusitania. XXXIV, 8, 7.</note> the former,
in the case of the tame cattle,<note place='foot'><p>In Buenos Ayres, in the nineteenth
century, beggars on horseback were to be seen. (<hi rend='italic'>Robertson</hi>,
Letters on South America, II, 294.) In Krasnojarsk, in 1770, 1-½ rubles was the price
of an ox, 1 ruble of a cow, from 2 to 3 of a horse, from O.3 to O.5 of a sheep; O.15
of a deer. (<hi rend='italic'>Pallas</hi>, Sibirische Reise, III, 5, II 12.) According
to the Tables of Prices in <hi rend='italic'>Sir F. M. Eden</hi>, State of the Poor,
Append. I, and <hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, History of Agriculture and Prices
(1866), I, 245, 361, the following prices obtained in England;
</p>
<p>
(On an average.)
</p>
<p>
in 1125-26, one ox, 1 shilling; one quarter of wheat, 20 shillings;<lb/>
in 1260-1400, one ox, 13 shillings 1-¼d; one quarter of wheat, 5 shillings 10-¾d;<lb/>
in 1406, one ox, 9-½ shillings; one quarter of wheat, 4-½ shillings;<lb/>
in 1463, one ox, 10-20 shillings; one quarter of wheat, 1-⅔-4-⅔ shillings.
</p>
<p>
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Hume</hi>, History of England, a. 1327. Under Henry VIII. veal,
beef, mutton and pork were food for the poor in England, and cost on an average
1-½d per pound; while wheat cost from 7 to 8 shillings a quarter. (24 Henry VII,
c. 3. <hi rend='italic'>Price</hi>, Observations, II, 148 f.) The same appears from
the <q>reasonable prices</q> which Charles I, in 1663, had established by sworn
juries viz.: that the different kinds of meat were much cheaper comparatively
than corn in our days. <hi rend='italic'>(Rymer</hi>, Foedera, XIX, 511.
<hi rend='italic'>Anderson</hi>, Origin of Commerce, a. 1633.) In many places in the
highlands of Scotland, in the middle of the seventeenth century, one pound of oat-bread
cost as much or more than one pound of the best meat. The union of Scotland with
more highly civilized England soon changed the relation, so that in <hi rend='italic'>Adam
Smith's</hi> time, good meat, in nearly all parts of Great Britain was worth from
2 to 4 times as much as the same weight of wheat bread. (Wealth of Nations,
I, ch. 11, 1.) The Thomas Hospital in London paid, on an average,
for good beef per stone weight:
</p>
<p>
1701-1710: 1s. 7.9d.<lb/>
1764-1773: 1s. 3.7d.<lb/>
1794-1803: 1s. 5.d.<lb/>
1804-1821: 1s. 10.9d.<lb/>
1822-1842: 1s. 1.5d.
</p>
<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Porter</hi>, Progress of the Nation, III, 112.) Among the most certain
proofs of the high degree of economic civilization attained in upper Italy about
the close of the medieval times is the fact, that the price of cattle, compared
with that of wheat in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, varies very
little from what it is to-day. (<hi rend='italic'>Cibrario</hi>, Economia politica del
medio Evo, III, 335-383.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch I, § 185. In
Athens, the cost of a <hi rend='italic'>medimnos</hi>
of wheat was as great as that of a sheep in Solon's time. In the age of Demosthenes,
it cost only half as much. (<hi rend='italic'>Böckh</hi>, Staatshaushalt der
Athener, I, 107, 132.) It is obvious, however, that the price of meat compared
with that of corn, was lowered by the great extension of the artificial
cultivation of meadows; for, when the former has reached its maximum, it
becomes a great spur to the promotion of the latter. Thus, in England, the
price of meat, at the beginning of the sixteenth century, was on an average,
higher than in <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith's</hi> time. (loc. cit.) To the same cause is
to be ascribed the state of things in Prussia mentioned by <hi rend='italic'>v.
Podewils</hi>, Wirth schaftserfahrungen, II, 15.
</p>
<p>
As a common basis for such calculations, the following may be accepted.
It is plain that meadows, pasturages and forage-fields must yield as much in
meat, as corn-fields of the same dimensions of equal goodness, and situated
as favorably, in corn. According to <hi rend='italic'>Block</hi>, a Prussian acre
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Morgen</foreign>) of the
best quality, used as a meadow, produces a hay-value equal to 1,000 pounds,
a clover-value equal to 2,420; as a vegetable field, a beet or potato-value equal
to 6,050-6,930 pounds, <hi rend='italic'>v. Lengerke's</hi> estimate is that 110 pounds
of cattle-fodder expressed in terms of hay, produces on an average 40 pounds of milk,
and from 3-½ to 4 pounds of meat. This would, at most, give 36, 88 and 220-252 pounds of
meat. The yield of wheat, <hi rend='italic'>v. Lengerke</hi> estimates, on the best soil,
and on an average, at 14 Prussian <foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>scheffels</foreign> (at 80 pounds, i.e. 1,120
pounds) yearly per acre (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Morgen</foreign>).
The three periods in the history of the prices of cattle were clearly recognized by
<hi rend='italic'>Thaer</hi>, Landw. Gewerblehre, 1815, 100.</p></note>
fresh-water fish,<note place='foot'>It is a very characteristic fact,
in relation to the river fisheries, that the fable that servants formerly
stipulated not to eat salmon except twice a week
is to be found in so many places. Thus on the Elbe and the Rhine. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Thaarup</hi>, Dänische Statistik, I, 112. In Scotland, about the end of
the seventeenth century, the story in places ran, that it was five times a week.
(<hi rend='italic'>Walter Scott</hi>, Old Mortality, ch. 8.) In England, fish seems to
have been a tid-bit among the poorer classes in the fourteenth century.
(<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, I, 606.) It was dearer especially during Lent. (Statist.
Journ., 1861, 544 ff.) The artificial production of sea-fish seems to have been tried only
by the ancient Romans. On the whole, <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith's</hi> law that a
ten-fold demand can, as a rule, be met only by a greater than ten-fold labor, applies
here. (I, 370, ed. Basil.) But this relation is obscured to a certain extent, from the fact
that the source of the production of sea-fish, the ocean, which may be claimed at any
time by occupation, is, practically, boundless. Here, therefore, the improvements
made in nautical science, and the progress of geographical knowledge,
may yet for a long time compensate for the exhaustion of the nearer seas,
and even more than counterbalance it.</note> and wood.<note place='foot'>Among
a great many nations in a low stage of civilization, agriculture
consists in the burning down of the forest. In 1594, the Lauenförder forest
produced 1,110 thalers' worth of food for hogs, and wood to the amount of
44 thalers. (<hi rend='italic'>v. Berg</hi>, Staatsforstwirthsch., 213.) The Harzgerode
woods, at the ducal line of Anhalt-Bernburg, were estimated at 6,000 thalers. A hundred
years later, they brought in yearly 70,000 thalers, although, in the meantime,
very little progress was made in the science of cultivating them, (<hi rend='italic'>v.
Justi</hi>, Staatswirthschaft, II, 211.) We may form a notion of the relativity of
the idea of the dearness of wood from the fact that in Bavaria, for instance,
in 1840, there was a great deal of complaint, that in the district of Isark the
price rose from 6 to 9 florins; in the districts of Regen and the lower Maine,
from 11 to 14 florins to from 15 to 18; in the Rhine district, from 20 to 26
florins per cord (<hi rend='italic'>Klafter</hi>). (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch,
III, § 150, a.) Besides, the price of wood in the forest rises, with an advance in
civilization, much more rapidly than it does in the market; in which last, labor and
capital play a greater part. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, I, §
385.)</note><note place='foot'>Plan for the artificial production of pearl oysters.
(Novara-Reise, I, 303.) Ostriches seem now to be ceasing to be objects of mere occupation,
and to be becoming objects of breeding. (Ausland, 1869, § 13.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='393'/><anchor id='Pg393'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXII. History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of
Life. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXII.</head>
<head>History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of Life. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
B. The rise in prices is observed earliest in that class of
goods in question which by reason of their small volume and
<pb n='394'/><anchor id='Pg394'/>
their comparatively great value, and by reason of the greater
capacity to be kept in a state of preservation for a longer
time, are best adapted to seeking a more favorable market.
This applies particularly to the skins, fleece, hair, feathers,
<pb n='395'/><anchor id='Pg395'/>
teeth, horns, etc., of animals, in which, in the breeding of stock,
etc. people in a low stage of civilization are much more apt
to speculate than in their meat. Here it is considered, and
rightly so, to be much more profitable to raise many animals
which are badly cared for, than a few, that are well cared for;
for the care bestowed on animals has, as a rule, much more influence
on the body itself than on their covering.<note place='foot'><p>Thus
Wolff's experiments made at Möckern have shown that in the case
of sheep fed with hay, the wool becomes much heavier and the flesh
leaner than those of sheep fed with a more concentrated food. While it is
estimated in England, at the present time, that the wool of South-Down
sheep is worth scarcely one-tenth what their flesh is (<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, On
Corn Trade, 166), mutton, from the year 1260 to 1400, was, on an average, worth
17 pence; and this even at a time when prices were gradually rising; but the
wool of one animal (1 lb., 7-¾ ounces), 5-¼ pence. (<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, I,
362, 395.) Even under Anglo-Saxon kings the fleece was worth 40 per cent. of the value
of the whole sheep, (<hi rend='italic'>David Hume</hi>.) And so <hi rend='italic'>W.
Macann</hi>, Two Thousand Miles Ride through the Argentine Provinces, 1853, I, 151, says
that in the interior of Buenos Ayres, he purchased 8,000 sheep at 18 pence a dozen,
and after a march of 200 English miles, sold the skins for sixty pence a dozen.
In Goya, formerly, a live horse cost 3 pence, its skin on the coast 12
pence; and the slaughtering of the beast cost 3 pence, the removal and cleaning
of the skin 3 pence; and 3 pence were paid for transportation.
(<hi rend='italic'>Robertson</hi>.)
</p>
<p>
In Ireland, in 1763, it not unfrequently happened that the skin and tallow
of an ox cost as much in a commercial city as the whole ox had cost in the
nearest market town. (<hi rend='italic'>Temple</hi>, Works III, 13.) In England, from 1260
to 1400, the average price of a whole cow was 9s. 9d.; of the hide 1s. 8d., and
cows were cheapest in the first decade, i.e., 6s. 2d., and the hides dearer than
they were generally afterwards, i.e., by from 1-9-¼d. (<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, I,
361, 451.) In Saxony, according to <hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi> (1853), the average price
of horned cattle was about 46 thalers; of their hide, 4 thalers and 21 silver groschens.
Russia exported, 1842-1847, 72,636,166 silver rubles worth of tallow, 1,832,137 silver
rubles worth of horse hair, 10,811,735 worth of bristles (<hi rend='italic'>Borsten</hi>),
7,387,140 of uncured skins, 36,159,452 of sheep's wool, but flesh-meat only to the
amount of 370,362 rubles, and entire animals to the value of 6,853,241 rubles.
(<hi rend='italic'>P. Storch</hi>, Der Bauernstand Russlands, 289 ff.) Tallow is there ten
times dearer than the same volume of wheat. (<hi rend='italic'>Steinhaus</hi>, Russlands
industrielle und commercielle Verhältnisse, 294 ff.); while in Saxony, according to
<hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi> (1821), a pound of wheat cost on an average 7.8
<hi rend='italic'>pfennigs</hi>, and a pound of tallow 30 <hi rend='italic'>p.</hi>
However, Russia's recent progress in civilization has had for effect: that the exportation
of tallow (1833 = 4-½ million <hi rend='italic'>puds</hi>; 1869 = 2-¼ mill.) has greatly
fallen off; while that of butter and live stock has increased. (<hi rend='italic'>v.
Lengefeld</hi>, R. im 19. Jahrh., 220 ff.)
</p>
<p>
In England, during the fourteenth century, a pound of meat cost, on an
average, ¼d.; of lard, from 1-½ to 2. (<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, I, 411.) On the
other hand, from 1848 to 1856, the average January price of beef from America was
110 shillings; of tallow from St. Petersburg, 48s. 11d. per cwt.
(<hi rend='italic'>Newmarch</hi>.) And so, in the time of <hi rend='italic'>Pallas</hi>,
the Cossacks chased the deer of their steppes only for the sake of its skin and horns.
(<hi rend='italic'>Pallas</hi>, Reise, III, 524.) While the Greeks got horn from Macedonia
and Thrace (<hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, VII, 156), it is a striking proof of high
civilization that at Athens (?), about the time of the hundredth Olympiad, an ox-hide was
worth only 3 drachmas, and the whole ox 77 drachmas. (<hi rend='italic'>Böckh</hi>,
Staatshaushalt, I, 105 ff.)
</p>
<p>
As the ox is primarily serviceable as an object of food and an instrument
of labor, and the sheep on the other hand, only an instrument to produce
wool, it is easy to understand why, with the further advance of civilization,
the price of oxen rises comparatively much more than the price of sheep. In
Athens, during the time of Solon, an ox was equal in value to five sheep.
(<hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Solon, 23.) So also in countries with a low
civilization in the time of Polybius. (<hi rend='italic'>Polyb.</hi>, XXXIV, 8;
<hi rend='italic'>Gell.</hi>, XI, 1.) Why the same was the case in Rome at the
beginning of the Republic? (<hi rend='italic'>Plut.</hi>, Popl., 11). In
England the proportion between the price of an ox and that of a sheep was,
</p>
<p>
in 927 as 6:1 (<hi rend='italic'>Henry</hi>.)<lb/>
in 1125 as 3:1<lb/>
in 1182 as 6.3:1<lb/>
in 1197 as 9:1<lb/>
in 1229 as 8:1 (<hi rend='italic'>Eden</hi>.)<lb/>
in 1260-1492 (av.) as 9.2:1 (<hi rend='italic'>Rog.</hi>)<lb/>
in 1497 as 10:1<lb/>
in 1500 as 11.6:1<lb/>
in 1511 as 8:1<lb/>
in 1528 as 10:1<lb/>
in 1529 as 12.8:1<lb/>
in 1531 as 9.4:1<lb/>
in 1551 as 10.6:1<lb/>
in 1597 as 8.2:1 (<hi rend='italic'>Eden</hi>.)
</p>
<p>
At present the proportion may be from 10 to 20:1. In Saxony, it is as
48 thalers to 5.27. (<hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi>.)</p></note> In fisheries,
<pb n='396'/><anchor id='Pg396'/>
caviar, sturgeon-bladders, oil and whalebone;<note place='foot'>About 1793, Russia
exported 10,000 rubles worth of fish, 452,000 of sturgeon bladders, 188,000 of
caviar. (<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Russland, II, 184.) But this had
undergone a great change even in 1850. At present, there are 64 per
cent. of sturgeon bladders, 27 of caviar, and 7 of whole fish.
(<hi rend='italic'>Steinhaus</hi>, Russland's industrielle und commercielle Verhältnisse,
102, 368.) Yet the Astrakan fishermen still throw the greater number of the sturgeon they
catch back into the water. (<hi rend='italic'>Pallas</hi>, Reise im süd. Russland, I,
189; <hi rend='italic'>Steinhaus</hi>, 99.) Salt fish are adapted for transportation to a
distance not only because they can be preserved, but also because they may be caught and
prepared on the great highway of the water. Athens got from the Black Sea besides wood,
tar, wool, hides, cordage, honey, wax and slaves, also salt fish.
(<hi rend='italic'>Wolf</hi>, z. Demosth. Leptin., 252; <hi rend='italic'>Bockh</hi>,
Staatshaush. I, 51.) The latter from Sardinia, Egypt and Spain.
(<hi rend='italic'>Pollux</hi>, VI, 48.)</note> and in forest-culture,
<pb n='397'/><anchor id='Pg397'/>
pitch, tar, potash and, to some extent, building material
etc., play the same part.<note place='foot'>The principal
countries that produce potash are Russia and North America.
It is estimated that a cwt. of potash requires, on an average, 480 cwt.
of wood. (<hi rend='italic'>Pfeil</hi>, Grundsätze der Forstwirthsch. in Bezug.
auf National-Oekon. etc., I, 128.) From 1800 to 1840, wood for fuel in Würtemberg trebled
its price; for building material the price increased 1.6 times. (Deutsche
Vierteljahrsschrift, 1847, No. 4, 104.)</note>
</p>

<p>
Conversely, the price of those portions which are most difficult
of transportation, by reason of their volume or of the
difficulty of preserving them, rises latest. To this category
belongs milk, the production of which in a fresh state can be
made an object of economic speculation, only where civilization
is at its very highest, and especially in the vicinity of
large cities.<note place='foot'>Whereas barbarous nations
take little trouble to turn the milk from their cows to account
(<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Ideen z. Politik und Statistik der Ackerbausysteme,
Archiv. der politische Œkonomie, neue Folge, III, 202), <hi rend='italic'>Reuning</hi>, in
1844, calculated that the milk from all the cows in Saxony amounts to a value
of 10,000,000 thalers, their meat to over 2,000,000, and the labor performed
by them in various ways to 3,000,000. In Silesia, in the last decade of the
eighteenth century, a quart of milk was estimated to be worth 2
<hi rend='italic'>pfennigs</hi> (Festschrift der deutschen Landwirthschaftsversammlung,
1869, 343), whereas as now it is sold almost everywhere for 12
<hi rend='italic'>pfennigs</hi>. (<hi rend='italic'>Schmoller</hi>.) In the
rather high state of civilization which Saxony had reached at the end of the
sixteenth century, when game was already dear, and the prices of other meat
were almost as high as in 1800, a <hi rend='italic'>sheffel</hi> of rye was
worth 44 measures (<hi rend='italic'>Mass.</hi>) of milk, and recently 82-⅔ measures.
(<hi rend='italic'>Schmoller</hi>, Tübinger Ztschr., 1871. 336 ff.)</note>
It is indeed possible by its transformation into
butter or cheese to preserve milk and make it capable of
<pb n='398'/><anchor id='Pg398'/>
transportation. But to carry on such a business for the purposes
of trade, a care and a cleanliness are needed which are
national characteristics only of a highly civilized people (§ 229),
and the preparation of a superior quality of cheese, which is always
a very long process, is conditioned by the employment
of capital long in advance of a return, and which no poor
nation is in a condition to make.<note place='foot'>The principal
cheese-producing countries and cities are Holland, Limburg,
Switzerland, Gloucester, Chester, Ayrshire etc. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>,
loc. cit., 195 ff.</note> Cows are primarily milk-producing
animals.<note place='foot'>In England, in the year 1000, a cow was worth only as much as
two sheep. (<hi rend='italic'>Anderson</hi>, Origin of Commerce, a., 979.) The best
butter was worth only 1d. per pound in 1550, while pork was worth 1-1/8, veal and mutton,
1-½, and beef, 2-¼d. The price of butter was exceedingly variable in the sixteenth
century. (<hi rend='italic'>Eden</hi>.)</note> Hence their price, as a rule, rises later
than that of oxen, but, in the higher stages of civilization, it
rises much more surprisingly. Something analogous is true
of those products which result from what remains after the
production of other goods or commodities. As long as this
alone supplies the demand, the cost of production of the
former commodity is almost nothing, and hence its price is
very low. For this reason hogs are relatively cheap in two
very different periods of a people's national economy, in a very
low stage of civilization where forests are plentiful and they
are fattened on acorns and the nuts of the beech, and also
when they may be considered as a collateral product of some
great industry, such as distilleries and dairy-farming; and
when raised by a numerous, especially a rural population of
small means and laborers, in order to turn to advantage, in
the former instance, the remains of production, and in the latter
of consumption.<note place='foot'><p>During the middle ages, pork
constituted the most usual animal food even of the best classes.
(<hi rend='italic'>Büsching</hi>, Ritterzeit und Ritterwesen, I, 164.) Immense
importance attached to pork by the <hi rend='italic'>Lex Salica</hi>. (Tit., II, XIV;
Emendatt. Caroli Magni, II, 1 ff.) The archbishop of Cologne used every day 24 large
and 8 medium-sized hogs, and four more on the three great festivals. The
abbot of Corvey used daily five fat and one lean hog, besides two young ones.
(<hi rend='italic'>Kindlingen</hi>, Münsterische Beitr., Urkunden, 147, 126.) In 1345, at
the court of Dauphiny, there were used annually for 30 persons, 30 salt and 52 fresh
hogs; whereas, in modern Paris, with 800,000 inhabitants, only 32,000 hogs
are consumed yearly. (<hi rend='italic'>Roquefort</hi>, De la Vie privée des Fr., I, 310
f.) Compare herewith the place occupied by the swine-herds in the Odyssey in
Greece's age of chivalry. In England, in the time of William I., woods were
taxed according to the number of hogs they might feed. At present, there
is an enormous production of hogs in Servia, which, in many places, constitutes
the only source of ready money to the agricultural population.
</p>
<p>
And about the end of the eighteenth century, it is said that Servia received
from Austria alone 1,300,000 florins yearly for hogs. (<hi rend='italic'>Ranke</hi>, Serb.
Revolution, 95.) In 1864, Servia's total exports amounted to 62,500,000 piasters,
of which 28,162,260 were for hogs, 7,043,000 for wool, 7,662,000 for the
skins of sheep and deer, 5,732,000 for cattle, 1,222,400 for tallow.
(<hi rend='italic'>Kanitz</hi>, Serbien, 598 ff.) Great production of hogs also in the
Moldau and in Wallachia, in the United States and Mexico, where, instead of butter, only
lard and suet are used; also in Lombardy, the Prussian Rhine province, Belgium,
the English milk-producing districts, Gloucester, Wilt, Dumfries, Galloway
and the districts where agricultural proletarians abound&mdash;Ireland and Yorkshire.
It is a consequence of the same law that, among the South Sea Islanders,
the hog was the principal domestic animal, as it still is among the
Chinese. Similarly in the whole of Asia, beyond the Ganges (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>,
Erdkunde, IV, 938, 1101); in semi-barbarous upper Italy in the time of
<hi rend='italic'>Polybios</hi> (II, 15); in Gall itself, in the time of Augustus.
(<hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, IV, 192, 197.) The America of the ancient Greeks, Sicily,
exported hogs, mainly, in the time of Hermippos. (<hi rend='italic'>Athen.</hi>, I, 27.)
And even among the Romans, the consumption of pork was much greater than the consumption
of beef. (<hi rend='italic'>Marquard-Becker</hi>, Handbuch, V, 2, 39.)</p></note>
Where neither of these two reasons obtains,
<pb n='399'/><anchor id='Pg399'/>
the price of hogs is wont to increase largely with an advance
in civilization.<note place='foot'>In the cities of Prussia
subject to a tax for the privilege of maintaining slaughter
houses, a pound of beef cost on an average, in 1846, from 2 silver
groschens, 5 <hi rend='italic'>pfennigs</hi>, to 3 s. gr. 4 pf.; pork, from 3 s. gr. 2 pf.
to 4 s. gr. 4 pf. (<hi rend='italic'>Dieterici.</hi>) In Moscow, also, the latter is
dearer at present. Before the time of Peter the Great, it was cheaper.
(<hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch I, 364.) It was a sign of high civilization, too,
that in Florence, in the fifteenth century, veal cost, on an average, 2-½ soldi; mutton,
2-⅓ soldi; but pork, 4 soldi. (<hi rend='italic'>Pagnini</hi>,
Saggio sopra il giusto Pregio delle Cose, 325 f., Cust.) It is especially the
lower middle class who ask for fat meats. The very fat English sheep are
taken not to London, but into the manufacturing districts.
(<hi rend='italic'>Lauderdale</hi>, Inquiry, 322 f.) As to whether the relatively high
price of pork, and the fact that in the later times of Rome, the wild boar was the most
fashionable dish, compare <hi rend='italic'>Becker</hi>, Gallus, II,
186.</note><note place='foot'>The production of fowl is similar in this, that they are
frequently fed from remains of consumption; only their production is not adapted to
uncivilized countries, because it is difficult to protect them there. In Texas, it
is said, it costs more to raise ten chickens than to bring up ten children.
(<hi rend='italic'>Kennedy</hi>, Czarnkowski's translation, 1846, 115.) The independent
breeding of fowl is advisable only where there are a great many rich consumers; for
the reason that they are naturally a delicacy. Enormous production of pigeons
in Cambridge, Huntington etc. (<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, Statistical Account, I,
189.) In Paris the consumption of pork and fowl has gained somewhat since the Revolution.
(<hi rend='italic'>M'Chevalier</hi>, Cours. I, 113.)</note><note place='foot'><p>According
to <hi rend='italic'>Schuckburg</hi>, Philosophical Transactions of 1798, and
<hi rend='italic'>Kraus</hi>, Vermischte Schriften, I, tab. I, the prices of the following
species of animals rose in England between 1550 and 1795: horses, 904 per cent.; oxen,
896 per cent.; sheep, 876 per cent.; cows, 2050 per cent.; hogs, 1964 per cent.;
geese, 300 per cent.; butter rose from 5d. per pound to 11-½d.; beer from 1d.
per gallon to 2-¾d.; agricultural day wages from ½s. to 1s. 5-¼d.; wheat 326
per cent. Compare, however, Edinburg Review, III, 246 ff. In Germany
also, cows and hogs have increased much more in price than horses and
sheep. (Tübinger Ztschr., 1871, 342.) <hi rend='italic'>Dutot</hi>, Réflexions, 946 ff.,
éd. Daire, says that the value of the precious metals in France decreased in value between
the times of Louis XII. and Louis XV. in the ratio of 3-79/91:1. On
the other hand, the prices of different commodities rise in very different degrees:
</p>
<p>
Fat sheep, from 7 sous to 10 livres.<lb/>
Lean sheep, from 5 sous to 5 livres 10 sous.<lb/>
Hogs, from 10 sous to 25-35 livres.<lb/>
Capons, from 1 sou to 12 sous.<lb/>
Hens, from 1-½ sous to 6 sous.<lb/>
Pigeons, from 1-½ sous to 3 sous.<lb/>
Deer, from 1-½ sous to 15 sous.
</p></note> (See Roscher, Nationalökonomik
des Ackerbaues, §§ 177 ff.)
</p>

</div>

<pb n='400'/><anchor id='Pg400'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXIII. History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of
Life. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXIII.</head>
<head>History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of Life. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
C. Those raw materials which, from the very first, have
been obtained by the means of production properly so called,
maintain a much greater uniformity in price. In the lower
stages of civilization, they are never found permanently in
excess; and as the economy of a people advances, the growing
dearth of natural forces may be more or less counterbalanced
<pb n='401'/><anchor id='Pg401'/>
by the greater cheapness of capital and labor. This
is true, especially of wheat. (See § <ref target="Section_129">129</ref>,
and Roscher, Nationalökonomik des Ackerbaues, p. 43.)<note place='foot'><p>Thus,
in Thuringia, the average price in silver of corn from the sixteenth
century until the period 1848-61 increased in the ratio of from 1 to 3-4; the
price of the different kinds of animals, on the other hand, from 1 to 5-10.
(<hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi>, in <hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrbb., 1863,
78.) The price of the different kinds of corn as compared
with one another may, however, be modified by many
different circumstances. Thus the Capitulare Saxoniæ of 797, c., II, estimated
the prices of rye, barley and oats to be to one another as 30:30:15;
while the Magdeburg Chamber of 1804 estimated them to be as 17:14:8.
In the kingdom of Saxony, in 1841-9, the average prices of wheat, rye,
barley and oats stood to one another in the ratio of 144:100:75:47
(<hi rend='italic'>Engel</hi>); while, in the middle ages, wheat, rye and
oats were as 9:6:3 (<hi rend='italic'>Gersdorf</hi>,
Cod. Depl. Sax., II, p. XXXIV); under Prince August, corn, barley and oats
were as 24:22:12. Assuming the price of rye to be equal to 100, the cost
was:
</p>
<p>
At Brussels, in the 16th century, wheat 126.7, barley 80, oats 50<lb/>
At Brussels, in the 17th century, wheat 138.8, barley 82.9, oats 51.9<lb/>
At Brussels, in the 18th century, wheat 147, barley 86.7, oats 55.2<lb/>
At Brussels, 1815-1844, wheat 156<lb/>
At Brussels, 1841-1850, wheat 153, barley 82.7, oats 51<lb/>
At Berlin, 1789-1818, wheat 135, barley 74.8, oats 54<lb/>
At Berlin, 1819-1832, wheat 143.5, barley 74.9, oats 52
</p>
<p>
(<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, I, § 183.) To understand this, it is necessary to
bear in mind the relatively great increase of wheat bread, beer made of barley, and
horses, as objects of luxury. The unusually low price of oats in North
America, as compared with the price of wheat, is dependent on the facility
of exporting the latter. In Florence, in the fifteenth century, the price of
wheat was 22-⅔, of rye, 12, of barley, 8 <hi rend='italic'>soldi</hi>.
(<hi rend='italic'>Pagnini</hi>, Sopra il giusto
Pregio delle Cose, 325.)</p></note>
</p>

<p>
D. In the case also of those raw materials which are objects
of occupation, and never of real production, as, for instance,
minerals, a progressive public economy, by altering the different
elements of price in an opposite direction, may leave their
price on the whole unchanged. Here, indeed, the discovery
of new and especially of rich natural stores may exert an incalculable
influence; but such <q>accidents</q> underlie the laws of
human development only to the extent that those ages which
are intellectually most active are those also which are most industrious
and fortunate in the discovery of their natural resources.<note place='foot'><p>The
English so called custom-house prices (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Zollhauspreise</foreign>) correspond to
the market prices of 1696. If these are assumed = 100, the price
</p>
<p>
Of steel and iron was, in 1826, 83, in 1831, 56<lb/>
Of coal was, in 1826, 47, in 1831, 45
</p>
<p>
Between 1835 and 1850, Scotch iron had already become cheaper by one-half
(<hi rend='italic'>Meidinger</hi>, 387), and coal in London by one-third
(<hi rend='italic'>Porter</hi>).</p></note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='402'/><anchor id='Pg402'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXIV. History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of
Life. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXIV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXIV.</head>
<head>History Of The Prices Of The Chief Wants Of Life. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
E. The products of industry become cheaper and cheaper
as economic culture advances; whereas, for instance, in England,
towards the end of the middle ages, a single shirt was
considered of importance enough to be made not unfrequently
an object of testamentary bequest.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>,
History of Agriculture, I, 67.</note> And, indeed, the price of
industrial products sinks lower the more important the part
played in their production by capital and the division of labor
is as compared with the part played by the raw material.<note place='foot'>In
England, in 1172, an ox cost 2 shillings; in 1175, green cloth cost per
ell, 2-10/12 shillings; red cloth, 5-½ shillings. (<hi rend='italic'>Eden.</hi>) In the
western states of North America, the farmer gives two pounds of coarse wool for one pound
of woolen yarn; he sends 4 bushels of wheat to the miller for the flour of
three bushels (Ausland, 1843, No. 68), while in Ravenna, in the thirteenth
century, the miller's fee was 1/10 (<hi rend='italic'>von Raumer</hi>, Hohenstaufen II,
437); according to the fixed prices in <hi rend='italic'>Fantazzi</hi>, (Monumen.
Ravennet.); in Germany, during the last centuries of the middle ages, 1/8
(<hi rend='italic'>J. Grimm</hi>, Weisthümer, III, 8); at the end of the sixteenth
century from 1/8 to 1/5 (<hi rend='italic'>Coler</hi>, Oeconomia, II, 3); in
modern Germany, generally 1/16 of the raw material, and in the steppes of
southern Russia, when the wind is still, in summer, even the half. (Mitth.
der freien ökonom. Gesellsch. zu Petersburg, 1853, 85.) In Guiana, in 1806,
a very ordinary saddle and bridle could not be had under 10-½ guineas.
(<hi rend='italic'>Pinckard</hi>, Notes on the West Indies, III, 1806.)
<hi rend='italic'>Count Görtz</hi> was obliged to pay 2 dollars, in Demarara, for the
cleansing of a rifle, and another person for the oiling of a carriage, 5 dollars.
(Reise um die Welt, 1864, 327.) A lady's dress in Mobile costs four times
as much as in London or Paris. (<hi rend='italic'>Ch. Lyell</hi>, Second Visit
to the United States, II, 70.) In Athens, articles of clothing,
even for the poorer classes, were never as cheap as they are in civilized
countries to-day. (Compare <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, De Tranquill. Anim.,
10.)</note>
<pb n='403'/><anchor id='Pg403'/>
On this account, in recent times, fine cloths have grown, relatively
speaking, much cheaper than coarse ones.<note place='foot'>In Upper
Italy, between 1261 and 1400, a lady's chemise and the making
of it cost 14.77 lire; Rheims linen, 7.04; ordinary mourning cloth, O.45; black
cloth from Moriana, 2.83; cloth from Mecheln, 43.83; from Ypres, 47.04;
scarlet cloth, 80.44 per ell. (<hi rend='italic'>Cibrario</hi>, 1. 1.) On the
other hand, to-day, in the Leipzig market, the difference in price of the dearest and of
the cheapest cloth will scarcely surpass the ratio 18:1. Even
<hi rend='italic'>Scaruffi</hi>, Sulle Moneta, 1679, 163, Cust, remarks that hemp-linen
and similar coarse articles had increased much more in price than brocades; but he
ascribes this circumstance to the disordered state of the coinage. It is much better
accounted for by <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, Wealth of Nations, I, 386, ed.
Basil.</note> Lead, which during the middle ages in England was much cheaper
than iron, because of the difficulty of mining the latter, has become
much dearer in our days.<note place='foot'>Before the plague in the fourteenth century,
the cwt. of lead was worth 10-½d.; of iron, 4s. 1d. (<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, I.
599.) On the other hand, between 1848 and 1856, the average January price of
bar-iron was £7, 11s.; of lead, over £20. (<hi rend='italic'>Newmarch.</hi>)</note>
Conversely, where raw
material plays the most important part in manufactures, the
price of the manufactured article may increase with an advance
in civilization. Hence, articles made of wood are procured
at the cheapest rates in mountainous countries, where
the division of labor is not carried very far, but where the
raw material is cheap.<note place='foot'><p>Thus, in England, the price:
</p>
<p>
Of glass was, in 1826, 387; in 1831, 369 per cent.<lb/>
Of leather was, in 1826, 285; in 1831, 123 per cent.<lb/>
Of silk goods was, in 1826, 158; in 1831, 249 per cent.<lb/>
</p>
<p>
of the price of the same articles in 1796. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau.</hi>) Of 29 chemical
products of the Parisian manufacture, the wages of labor is on an average only 7.4
per cent. of the selling price; and, in some cases, only from 1 to 2 per cent.
(<hi rend='italic'>Chabrol</hi>, Richerches Statistiques sur la Ville de Paris, 1821;
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatsw. Untersuch., 137.) In Buschtiehrad, between 1670
and 1870, barley rose from 1 to 4.8; hops to 6.52; fire wood to 6.14; the excise to 6.54;
but beer only to 2.81; although wages increased ten fold. (<hi rend='italic'>Inama
Sternegg</hi>, Gesch. der Preise im österreich. Ausstellungsbericht von 1873,
43.)</p></note>
</p>

<pb n='404'/><anchor id='Pg404'/>

<p>
F. But the price of commodities decreases, especially in the
higher stages of civilization, to the extent that it is dependent
on commerce.<note place='foot'>A silk cloak lined with fur cost in
the time of Charlemagne, 400 scheffels of rye, one not so lined 200.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hullmann</hi>, Finanzgeschichte, 212 ff.) In
Florence in the fifteenth century, one pound of sugar was equal in value to
15 pounds of mutton. (<hi rend='italic'>Pagnini</hi>, 326.) In Turin, in
the fourteenth century, 1 pound of pepper was equal in value to 28 pounds of
salt. (<hi rend='italic'>Cibrario</hi>, III, 359, 362.) As late as the middle
of the fifteenth century, the court of Duke William of Saxony paid for one
pound of sugar 1 thaler and 8 groschens, while ducal fees paid to servants and
workmen seldom exceeded 2 gr. Hence, even at a princely meal, often scarcely
½ a pound was consumed. (<hi rend='italic'>Büsching</hi>, Ritterzeit, I, 137 f.)</note>
Here capital and human labor almost exclusively
are effective, and the modern improvements of communication,
legal security and competition are especially striking.<note place='foot'>Charlemagne's
capitularies suppose a merchant's profits to be from 100 to
200 per cent. (a. 809, c. 34.) And even in our own day, merchants in the
markets of Cabul are frequently not satisfied with a profit of from 300 to 400
per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, VII, 244), and the caravans
which leave Maroc for the Soudan are wont, in exchange for commodities amounting in
price to 1,000,000 piasters, to return with a supply of other commodities worth
10,000,000. (<hi rend='italic'>Stein-Wappäus</hi>, Handbuch, Africa, 33.) According
to <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, II, 10, the price of East Indian
products in Hamburg was some 70 per cent. higher than at home, while
<hi rend='italic'>Pliny</hi>, H. N. IV, 26, speaks of a price one hundred times
(?) as high; and its spices, at the time of Portuguese dominion, were sold at
a profit of at least 600 per cent., in Europe. (<hi rend='italic'>Crawfurd</hi>,
History, VII, 360; <hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, V, 872.)</note>
</p>

<p>
G. Since personal services are, as a rule, performed and
received only by individuals, the principle in accordance with
which labor in general becomes cheaper in the higher stages
of civilization, does not apply to them to any great extent.<note place='foot'>When
Humboldt found a missionary near Cumana who paid 7 piasters
for a cow, and was obliged to pay 17 piasters for blood-letting, rather unskilfully
performed, he found an illustration of one of the peculiarities of colonial
life&mdash;to have all the wants of higher stages of civilization but not the
means of satisfying them. (Relation historique, I, 374.)</note> Yet
we may claim that advancing civilization has pretty universally
a twofold influence on the price paid for personal services. In
the first place, freedom of competition, with the more accurate
and equitable determination of price which it produces (in contradistinction
to servitude, privilege and custom) always tends
<pb n='405'/><anchor id='Pg405'/>
to obtain the upper hand; and further, by the growing combination
of labor and of use (§§ <ref target="Section_56">56</ref>, ff. 207), a better and better
and more clearly defined gradation between ordinary services and
those of a higher order is effected. When the latter cannot
be increased at pleasure, the price paid for them may, as the
wealth of consumers increases, become, from motives of vanity
or of custom (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Gebrauchsgründen</foreign>),
almost unlimited. The dancing maid, to whom Herod (Mark, 6, 23) promised even
the half of his kingdom, is both in a politico-economical and
in a moral sense a warning example to over-refined nations.<note place='foot'>Enormous
payments made to distinguished virtuosi, actors, sophists and
hetares at the time in question, also to Appelles, Aristides etc., for works of
art. (<hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, XXXIV, 19, 2, XXXV, 36, 19.) The actor Aesopus
(see § 233, note 6) had a fortune worth 20,000,000 sesterces, while Pompey, for instance,
had 70,000,000. Roscius received from the state for every day he played,
286 thalers, and earned 43,000 a year. (<hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>, Römische
Geschichte, III, 483, 547.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Cicero</hi>, pro Roscio Comœdo,
10, and <hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, H. N. IX, 59, X, 72. The zither-player,
Amoebaeos, received one talent for each appearance. (<hi rend='italic'>Athen.</hi>
XIV, 623.) According to <hi rend='italic'>Pliny</hi>, H. N. XXIX, 5, the Roman
<hi rend='italic'>principes</hi> gave the most distinguished doctors yearly 250,000
sesterces, and even more as an honorarium. At the end of the eighteenth century, the
greatest Parisian actors received from 4,000 to 5,000 francs per annum. Now
100,000 is considered a moderate income for one. (Journ. des Economistes,
May, 1854, 279.) It is said that Frederick Hase earned $30,000 in America
in ten weeks. (Leipz. Tagebb., 15 Jan., 1871.) <hi rend='italic'>Steuart</hi>,
Principles, II, ch. 30. <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> frequently represents
it as a rule, that superfluous goods like gold and silver, are dearest among
the richest nations, necessary goods among the poorer, and
<hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>. But the supply has much more to do with
the permanent price of a commodity than the demand for it has. And the
principle above mentioned applies only in so far as the supply is here an unlimited
and there a limited one. Hence, the comparison of silver with painters'
and sculptors' works is not an apposite one&mdash;in the case of these there is a
natural monopoly, while the former, on account of its durability and capacity
for transportation, may, on the contrary, be increased almost at pleasure.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXV. History Of The Values Of The Precious
Metals.&mdash;In Antiquity And In The Middle Ages.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXV.</head>
<head>History Of The Values Of The Precious Metals.&mdash;In
Antiquity And In The Middle Ages.</head>

<p>
It is impossible to write a real history of the values of the
precious metals in ancient and medieval times: the sources of
<pb n='406'/><anchor id='Pg406'/>
information are too few. But it does seem possible to suggest
some fragments and something of the development of that
history,<note place='foot'>Besides <hi rend='italic'>Böckh.</hi>, Staatshaushalt
der Athener, 1817, Book I, compare <hi rend='italic'>Arbuthnot</hi>,
Tables of ancient Coins, Weights and Measures, 2d ed., 1754,
<hi rend='italic'>Reitmeyer</hi>, Ueber den Bergbau der Alten, 1785, and
Michaelis, De Pretiis Rerum apud veteros Hebræos, in the Comment. Societ.
Gottingensis, vol. III. The principal sources of information among the
ancients are <hi rend='italic'>Diodor.</hi>, V; <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>,
III, V; <hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, H. N., XXXIII.</note> at least in outline.
</p>

<p>
Thus, for instance, the supply of the precious metals furnished
by the mines, in the earlier times of ancient history,
was kept from entering the market by the system which then
prevailed everywhere, of hoarding treasure by the state, by
the temples etc., and later by great reserves of treasure kept by
individuals.<note place='foot'>The money revenue of the Persian king, to
the amount of 14,560 talents yearly, was transformed into bars and thus
deposited in the treasury. <hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>,
III, 95 f. Even the little vassal prince Pythios of Celænæ had a treasure
of 2,000 talents of silver and 4,000,000 pieces of gold. (Ibid, VII, 26 f.)
On the money stores of private persons, see <hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, H.
N., XXXIII, 47.</note> The revolutions in prices in ancient times were
produced as frequently by the sudden opening of such reservoirs,
as by the discovery of richer sources. Thus, for instance,
such events as the dissipation of Pericles' treasures, the
subsidies of the Persian kings, the spoliation of many temples
in consequence of declining religiousness, the distribution of
Persian treasures by Alexander the Great,<note place='foot'>An
ox was worth, in Solon's time, 5 drachmas; in 410 B.C., 51 dr.; 374
B.C., 77¼ dr.; a medimnos of wheat in Solon's time, 1 dr., about 390, 3 dr.,
under Alexander the Great, on an average, 5 dr. (<hi rend='italic'>Böckh.</hi>,
I, 102, f.) The usual amount of ransom paid for a prisoner of war, in Kleomenes' time,
was 2 minæ (<hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, V, 77, VI, 79); under Dionys., I,
300 m. (<hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>, Oeconom, II, 21); under Philip of Macedon,
from 300 to 400 m. (<hi rend='italic'>Demosth.</hi>, De fals. Legat., 394); under
Demetrios Poliorketes, 1,000 for a free man, 5 for a slave.
(<hi rend='italic'>Diod.</hi>, XX, 84.)</note> had a vast influence
on the undeniable rise in the price of Greek commodities
in the century succeeding the Peleponnesian war.<note place='foot'>This
booty for Susa alone amounted to from 40,000 to 50,000 talents; for
Persepolis, to 120,000; for Pasargadæ, to 600. <hi rend='italic'>Curtius</hi>,
V, 2, 6; <hi rend='italic'>Strabo</hi>, XV, 731; <hi rend='italic'>Justin</hi>,
XI, 14; <hi rend='italic'>Arrian</hi>, III, 16; <hi rend='italic'>Diod.</hi>,
XVII, 66, 71; <hi rend='italic'>Plutarch</hi>, Alex., 36.</note> Later,
it is said that in Rome, the price of pieces of land was doubled
<pb n='407'/><anchor id='Pg407'/>
by the influx of Egyptian war-booty.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Oros.</hi>,
VI, 19; <hi rend='italic'>Dio, C.</hi>, LI, 21; <hi rend='italic'>Suet.</hi>,
Aug., 41. Decline of the value of
money under Constantine the Great, when the precious objects of the heathen
temples were coined. (Monitio ad Theod., Aug. de inbidenda Largitate,
<hi rend='italic'>Thes.</hi>, Antt. Renn., XI, 1415; <hi rend='italic'>Taylor</hi>,
ad Warm. Sandvic, 38.)</note> It is a remarkable
proof of the undeveloped condition of trade in the earlier periods
of ancient history, that the perturbations in prices were,
apparently, at least, so entirely local. Phœnicia, Palestine
etc., must have experienced, in the age of Solomon, a formal
deluge of the precious metals, while Greece, for instance, was
then, and for centuries after, extremely poor in them.<note place='foot'>Compare
I Kings, 10, 14, 27 ff.; I Chron., 22, 2 ff.; II Chron., 9, 15 f.,
12, 10 ff. On Ophir: <hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>, Erdkunde, XIV,
407 f.; on the wonders of the discovery of Spain: <hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>,
IV, 152. <hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>, De Mirab., 146; Diodor,
V, 35 ff. On the other hand, of Greece, <hi rend='italic'>Athen.</hi> VI, 19
ff.</note> It is not, on the whole, to be doubted, that the value in exchange
of the precious metals was on a continual decline until the
most flourishing time of the Roman emperors.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, H. N., XIV, 1. Yet the value of money in the time of
the Cæsars seems to have stood much higher than it is now, as is proved, for
instance, by the endowments by Trajan (16 sesterces per month for boys,
and 12 sesterces per month for girls), as the <hi rend='italic'>alimenta</hi>
furnished them according to Digest XXXIV, 1, embraced their entire support.
Compare the excellent essay on this subject by <hi rend='italic'>Rodbertus</hi>,
in <hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrbb., 1870, I.</note> During the
middle ages, it seems to have stood much higher again; because
the great loss of treasure caused by the migration of
nations etc., the almost complete cessation of production at the
mines, and the slowness of the circulation of money, played
a much more important part than the decrease of trade.<note place='foot'>The
conquest of the Avares seems to have temporarily produced a considerable
cheapness of the precious metals. (<hi rend='italic'>Guérard</hi>, Polyptiques,
I, 141.) Increase of the value of money in Scandinavia, during the later part of the
middle ages. (<hi rend='italic'>Wilda</hi>, Gesch. des deutschen Strafrechts, I, 323
ff.)</note><note place='foot'>In England, from 1279 to 1509, there were coined on an
average only 6,868½ pounds sterling; from 1603 to 1830, on the other hand, 819,415 pounds
sterling. The average in the time of George IV., per annum, was 4,262,652
(<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, ch. IV.) An evidence of the uncertainty of the history
of prices in the middle ages is, that <hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, ch. 12,
infers, from the price of corn, that the price of silver remained rather stationary
from 1120 to 1550, while <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>, I, ch. 11, 3, infers from
the same fact, a remarkable rise in the price of silver from 1350 to 1570.
Concerning the latter, see <hi rend='italic'>Leber</hi>, Fortune
privée au moyen Age, 16 f. <hi rend='italic'>Tooke-Newmarch</hi>, History of Prices,
VI, 391; whereas <hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, Statist. Journ., 1861, 544 ff., finds
that in England, between 1300 and 1532, there was no change whatever in the price
of silver. According to <hi rend='italic'>Soetbeer</hi>, Forschungen zur deutschen
Geschichte, VI, 94, wheat and rye were, as compared with silver, worth during the
Carolingian period, about one-fourth of its value, between 1750 and 1850.
<hi rend='italic'>Hegel</hi>, Shassburger Chroniken, II, 1012, ascribes to gold over
2½ times as great a purchasing power in the 13th and 14th centuries as in the 19th
century; and to silver, a purchasing power about three times as great.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='408'/><anchor id='Pg408'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXVI. Effect On The Discovery Of American Mines Etc.
On The Value Of The Precious Metals.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXVI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXVI.</head>
<head>Effect On The Discovery Of American Mines Etc.
On The Value Of The Precious Metals.</head>

<p>
The discovery of America influenced the market of the
precious metals less by the peculiar wealth of the mines in that
part of the world than by their almost incredible number.<note place='foot'>The
silver ores of Peru and Mexico yield, on an average, only from 2 to
3 per 1,000 of metal; those of Potosi, at present, scarcely 1 per 1,000; those
of Mexico, according to <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, on an average, from 3 to 4
ounces per cwt.; so that many of the European ores are decidedly richer. While the
veins of the Saxon mine, Himmelsfürst, have a breadth of only from 0.2 to
0.3 meters; the Veta-Madre of Guanaxuato, is in few parts less than 8, and
it is sometimes even 50 meters broad; and the Veta-Grade of Zacatecas is
from 5 to 10 meters in breadth. In Pasco there are veins of silver ore which
have 114 and even 123 meters. <hi rend='italic'>Tschudi</hi>, Reise in Peru, K., 12;
<hi rend='italic'>Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III, 184 ff., 241 ff. According to
<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, Essai sur la Nouvelle Espagne, III, p. 413, eleven
times as many miners are needed at Himmelsfürst
as at Valenciana to obtain the same quantity of silver.</note>
The sources of wealth that the conquistadores first lighted
upon were, however, much over-estimated.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance, the
celebrated ransom-money of Athahualpa (even according to <hi rend='italic'>Garcilaso
de la Vega</hi>) amounted to only 5,000,000 thalers, while the French King John, after
the battle of Poitiers, in 1356, had to pay 41,000,000 francs for his ransom.
(<hi rend='italic'>Leber</hi>, Fortune privée au moyen Age, 121 ff.)</note>
The production of the American mines first assumed great importance after
the discovery of Potosi, in 1545, which was soon followed by
the working of the American mines at Guanaxuato. (1558.)
<pb n='409'/><anchor id='Pg409'/>
Coincident with this was the extraordinary <q>chance</q> of
Medina's invention, in 1557; by means of which, it became
possible to separate silver from foreign elements by the cool
process of amalgamation, instead of melting it as had hitherto
been done; an invention all the more important in America,
for the reason that in that country, where there is so much
rich ore, there is scarcely any fuel, in the neighborhood<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, III, 190 ff. Discovery of the quicksilver mines
of Guancavelica, 1567.</note> of
where it is found. During the first hundred years the mines
of Peru occupied the most prominent place; whereas they
were afterwards completely overshadowed by the Mexican.<note place='foot'>The yield
of Potosi amounted from 1545 to 1638, to 395,619,000 pesos.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ulloa</hi>, Viage, II, I, 13.) Up to the present time,
the aggregate yield there has been estimated at from 6,000 to 7,000
million francs.</note>
According to Humboldt,<note place='foot'>On the worse grounded assumptions of
former writers, see <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>,
N. Espagne, IV, 237.</note> the annual export of gold and silver
from America to Europe, between 1492 and 1500, amounted
to 250,000 piasters; between 1500 and 1545, to 3,000,000;<note place='foot'>There
was really introduced into Spain, about 1525, not much over 2,000,000
francs annually; and after 1550, six times as much. (<hi rend='italic'>L.
Ranke</hi>, Fürsten und Völker, I, 347 ff.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>,
Ueber die Schwankungen der Goldproduction, in the Vierteljahrsschrift, 1838, IV,
18.</note>
from that time to 1600, to 11,000,000; in the seventeenth century,
to about 16,000,000; during the first half the eighteenth
century to 22,500,000; during the second half, to 35,300,000.
</p>

<p>
The production of gold in Brazil began to be important
after the commencement of the eighteenth century,<note place='foot'>On the Brazilian
exports of gold in the 18th century, see <hi rend='italic'>Schäfer</hi>, Gesch.
von portugal, V, 192 ff.</note> and the
working of the Mexican silver mines of Valencia, Biscaina etc.
from the middle of the same century. In the beginning of the
nineteenth century, Mexico produced, annually, 537,512 kilogrammes
of silver, and 1,609 kilogrammes of gold; Peru,
140,078 and 782 of silver and gold respectively; Buenos
Ayres, 110,764 and 506; Chili, 6,827 and 2,807; New Granada,
4,714 kilogrammes of gold; Brazil, 3,700 kilogrammes of
<pb n='410'/><anchor id='Pg410'/>
gold; the whole of America together, 795,581 kilogrammes of
silver and 14,018 kilogrammes of gold, worth about 60,750,000
thalers.<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, N.E., IV,
218, the amount up to the beginning of this century was 17,000 kilogrammes of gold
and 800,000 kilogrammes of silver.</note> During the uprisings between 1810 and 1825,
which separated Spanish America from the mother country, the
production of the mines diminished as surprisingly as it had
increased in the previous generation by reason of the greater
liberality of Spanish colonial policy.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance, Mexico,
during this period yielded, on an average, 65,000,000 francs, instead of the former
amount of from 130,000,000 to 140,000,000. In Carro de Potosi, there were, in 1826,
of the former 132 pool-works only 12 in operation. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Adams</hi>, The Actual State of the Mexican Mines, 1822.
<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi> assumes that about 1830, the quantity of money
in Europe and America was 1/6th less than in 1809. (Ch. 28.)</note> Since that time,
a certain increase has, indeed, been noticed, which, however,
had not immediately before the discovery of the gold mines of
California by any means attained the height reached in 1808,
but only an annual production of 701,570 kilogrammes of silver,
and of 15,215 kilogrammes of gold, with an aggregate
value of more than 56,000,000 thalers.<note place='foot'>Of this, 1,800 kilogrammes of
gold from the United States.</note>
</p>

<p>
In Europe, also, the obtaining of the precious metals during
the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries took a great stride,
especially in Germany;<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Fischer</hi>, Geschichte
des deutschen Handels, 2d ed., II, 616 ff., 673 ff. But
the Schwaz mines, in the Tyrol, are said to have produced, until 1523,
55,000 marks annually; the Freiberg silver mine, from 1542 to 1616, 16,000
marks annually. Compare <hi rend='italic'>von Langen</hi>, Kurfürst Moritz, II,
56.</note> but, on the other hand, the Spanish
gold and silver mines were closed in 1535 by a law. In the
seventeenth century, there was another lull, followed, at the
end of the eighteenth, by a second period of activity which has
not yet closed. The great development of the production of
gold in the Ural mines since 1819, and in the Altai mines since
1829,<note place='foot'>The Russian gold ores, quite insignificant before the year
1814, have made very great progress since 1840. Their aggregate yield, between 1814
and 1861, not taking into account the amount embezzled, amounted to 37,000
<hi rend='italic'>puds</hi>, the <hi rend='italic'>pud</hi> being equal to 16.3
kilogrammes. The best year, 1847, gave a yield of 1,757 <hi rend='italic'>puds</hi>;
1852-1861, an average of 1,556 <hi rend='italic'>puds</hi>; 1861 alone, 1,442
<hi rend='italic'>puds</hi>, of which 1,041 came from the private Siberian gold-sand
washings. (<hi rend='italic'>Walcker</hi>, in Faucher's Vierleljahrsschrift, 1869,
II, 115.)</note> the revival of the production of silver in the old Spanish
<pb n='411'/><anchor id='Pg411'/>
mines since 1835,<note place='foot'>Spanish silver production yielded, in 1845, over
184,000 marks; in 1850, over 291,000. (<hi rend='italic'>Willkomm</hi>, Halbinsel
der Pyranäen, 1855, 537.)</note> and Pattinson's discovery, by means of
which the poorest lead ores containing silver may be refined,
are here of great importance.<note place='foot'>Annales des Mines, X, 831
ff.</note> Shortly before 1848, it was
estimated that all the mines of the old world produced annually
about 274,000 kilogrammes of silver, and 56,000 kilogrammes
of gold, with an aggregate value of over 69,000,000
thalers.<note place='foot'>Of this amount, there came to Europe, not including Russia,
150,000 kilogrammes of silver, 2,650 kilogrammes of gold; to Russia, 24,000 kilogrammes
of silver and 30,000 kilogrammes of gold (embracing the quantities
probably withdrawn without the knowledge of the custom's authorities); to
the rest of Asia, 100,000 kil. of gold; to Africa, 4,000. (<hi rend='italic'>M.
Chevalier.</hi>)</note><note place='foot'>According to
<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt's</hi> assumption before the time of Columbus, Europe
had a circulation of 170,000,000 piasters; about 1600, of 600,000,000;
about 1700, of 1,400,000,000; in 1809, of about 1,824,000,000. Up to 1803,
there was produced in America, 9,915,000 marks (Spanish) of gold, and
512,700,000 of silver. (N.E., 245.) <hi rend='italic'>Gallatin</hi> estimates that,
before Columbus, there were 1,600,000,000 francs; in 1830, in Europe and America,
from 22,000,000,000 to 27,000,000,000 francs. (Considerations on the Currency and
Banking System of the United States, 1831.) According to <hi rend='italic'>M.
Chevalier</hi>, 1850, all the silver which America produced had a volume of only 11,657
cubic meters; and all the gold of only 151 cubic meters. The latter, therefore,
would not even fill the half of a French gentleman's <hi rend='italic'>salon</hi>.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXVII. Revolution In Prices At The Beginning Of
Modern History.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXVII.'/>
<anchor id="Section_137"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXVII.</head>
<head>Revolution In Prices At The Beginning Of Modern History.</head>

<p>
The mere discovery of new and richer mines need not, of
itself, lower the price of the precious metals. Their price depends
on their cost of production; and it may be very much
increased, even under the most favorable natural conditions,
by the unskillfulness of labor, the dearness of the means of
<pb n='412'/><anchor id='Pg412'/>
subsistence, of machinery and of auxiliary substances, by insecurity
to property or to the person; by war, oppressive taxes<note place='foot'>All the more
in favor with governments because they affect principally
foreign consumers. Thus, the Spanish government at first imposed a tax of
50 per cent. of the gross yield of the raw material, on the purchaser of silver;
since 1503, under Orando, of 33-⅓ per cent.; and later yet, of 20 per
cent. This last tax was therefore in full force under Cortes. This tax was
reduced in Mexico, in 1725, and in Peru in 1736, to 10 per cent., and later, in
the case of gold, to 3 per cent. Heavy taxation of Russian gold ore (35 per
cent. of the raw material), by virtue of the ukase of April 14, 1849. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, III, 274.</note>
etc. The new mines can produce a decline in the price of the
precious metals only to the extent that, for the same amount
of capital and labor expended, they, spite of all such deductions,
produce a greater result.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Cantillon</hi>, Nature
du Commerce, 215, 236, shows very clearly how the increase
of the price of commodities was produced, in the first instance, by the
increased consumption of the possessors of gold, and how it, therefore, first
affected those commodities which they especially desired.</note>
</p>

<p>
I opine that the price of metallic money, since the discovery
of America, has diminished until the present time in the ratio
of from three to four to one.<note place='foot'>This is the opinion of
<hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi>. Similarly of <hi rend='italic'>David Hume</hi>, On
Money. According to <hi rend='italic'>Letronne</hi>, Considérations sur l'Evaluation
des Monnaies Grecques et romaines, 119, and <hi rend='italic'>Böckh</hi>,
Staatshaushalt, I, 88, the average value of wheat in relation to silver was, in
Athens, 400 B.C., as 1:3146; in Rome, 50 B.C., as 1:2681; in France, shortly before
1520 after Christ, as 1:4320; in the nineteenth century it is as 1:1050.
<hi rend='italic'>Th. Smith</hi>, De Republ. Anglorum, I, assumes that the price of
silver, from the age of chivalry to 1625, decreased in the ratio of 120:40. The
Spaniard, <hi rend='italic'>Moncado</hi> (1619), says as 6:1.
(<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, ch. 19.) <hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, himself, in
comparison with his own time, as 7:1 (ch. 15.) Much more moderate is
<hi rend='italic'>Newmarch</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>Tooke's</hi> History of Prices, VI,
345 ff., who assumes an increase in the prices of commodities of about 200 per cent.
The estimated value of tithe-wine (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Zehntwein</foreign>) about doubled in lower Austria,
during the sixteenth century. (<hi rend='italic'>Oberleitner</hi>, Finanzlage N.
Oesterreichs im 16 Jahrhundert, 36.) According to the important researches of
<hi rend='italic'>Mantellier</hi>, Mémoires de la Société Archéologique de l'Orleanais,
vol. 1, 103 ff.; extract of <hi rend='italic'>Lespeyres</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrb., 1865, I, 1, the purchasing power of silver
as compared with the average value of twenty-seven commodities, assuming it
to have been 1 from 1750 to 1850, was, from 1350 to 1450, 2.9; from 1450 to
1550, 2.8; from 1550 to 1650, 1.5; from 1650 to 1750, 2.1. According to
<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, the prices of corn in relation to silver were from 1596
to 1636, at most 2.3 times as high as from 1260 to 1400; from 1637 to 1700, 2.6 times;
from 1701 to 1764, 2.1 times; from 1726 to 1820, 3.2 times.
(<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, I, 180.)</note> The prices of wheat in France,
<pb n='413'/><anchor id='Pg413'/>
from 1800 to 1850, were about seven times as great as in the
second half of the fifteenth century; and in England about six
times as great. But, it is not to be overlooked here, how
wheat may have grown dearer in itself (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>an
sich</foreign>) and how gold
declined considerably less than silver. True, this decline of
the precious metals was not an entirely steady one. We meet
at the beginning of the modern era with a real revolution in
prices. The prices of rye, in lower Saxony, from 1525 to
1550, were twice as high as from 1475 to 1500. According
to Garnier, the French prices of wheat, from 1450 to 1500,
were, on an average, 408 francs of the present time per <hi rend='italic'>setier</hi>;
from 1501 to 1520, 5 francs; from 1522 to 1540, 11.26 francs;
from 1541 to 1560, 11.69 francs; from 1561 to 1580, 21.33
francs; from 1581 to 1600, 32.51 francs; during the first half
of the seventeenth century, 22.77 francs; in the second half,
26.83 francs; from 1701 to 1750, 19.64 francs. Similarly in
England, where wheat cost, from 1560 to 1600, 2.64 times as
much as from 1450 to 1500.<note place='foot'>In Germany, the rise in prices was first
observed in the price of foreign groceries, which partly rose 400 per cent. Popular
opinion looked for the cause in the evil disposition of the large commercial houses.
In order to facilitate the competition of the smaller houses with the larger, the
Reichstag, in 1522, prohibited all companies with a capital of more than 50,000 florins;
and, in 1524, the royal treasury wished to bring suit against the violators of
this law. But the cities contrived to avert the blow. (<hi rend='italic'>L. Ranke</hi>,
Geschichte der Reformation, II, 42 ff., 134 ff.) In Spain, the government, especially
between 1550 and 1560, endeavored to oppose the growing dearness of goods
of all kinds, by prohibiting the exportation of the most important commodities,
and by putting obstacles in the way of retail trade. The lower classes in England
ascribed the rise to the suppression of the monasteries (<hi rend='italic'>Percy</hi>,
Reliques of ancient Poetry, II, 296), while Henry VIII. endeavored to improve
the condition of things by laws against luxury, the governmental
establishment of fixed prices, the expulsion of foreign merchants etc. (21
Henry VIII.) The first writer who seems to have clearly seen the true cause of the
changes in price was <hi rend='italic'>Bodinus</hi>, Response aux Paradoxes de Mr.
de Malestroit touchant l'Enchérissement de toutes Choses et des Monnaies
(1568). This work was translated into Latin by <hi rend='italic'>H. Conring</hi>, 1671;
and done over in the work: Discours sur les Causes de l'extrême Cherté, qui est
aujourd'hui en France (1574). Next, we have the English author <hi rend='italic'>W.
S.</hi>, A Compendious or briefe Examination of certayne ordinary Complaints of divers
of our Countrymen of these our Days, London, 1581. In <hi rend='italic'>Befold's</hi>
Vitæ et Mortis Consideratio politica, 1623, 13 f., we have a right explanation
of the <hi rend='italic'>caritas sine inopia</hi> which is to be considered as the
common property of his time.</note>
</p>


<pb n='414'/><anchor id='Pg414'/>

<p>
Now, the increased production of the mines cannot be the
only cause of this great perturbation in prices. It commenced,
in most countries, at a time when the supplies from America
were still too small to account for such an effect. One of the
chief causes of the phenomenon was, that precisely at this period,
there was in so many nations a transition from a sluggish
circulation of money, made still more sluggish by the custom
which everywhere prevailed of hoarding treasure, to a rapid
circulation, which was made still more rapid by the use of all kinds of substitutes for
money. (§ <ref target="Section_123">123</ref>).<note place='foot'>Similarly
<hi rend='italic'>Quesnay</hi>, 77, Daire. <hi rend='italic'>Sir J. Stewart</hi>,
Principes, ch. 3. <hi rend='italic'>Kraus</hi>, Vermischte Schriften, II, 131 ff.
<hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Staatsw. Unters., 127.
<hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi>, Von den periodischen Schwankungen im Werth der
edlen Metalle, 1843, 70 f.</note> In the earliest ripe
fruit of European civilization (Italy), this transition had long
been accomplished; and, on that account, the value in exchange
of the precious metals was there, for a long time previous,
comparatively low.<note place='foot'>According to <hi rend='italic'>Cibrario</hi>, a
hectolitre of wheat was worth, in Turin, from 1289 to 1379, on an average, 905 gr. of
fine silver; that is, about three times as much as in Paris before the discovery of
America, and as much as in Paris from 1546 to 1556. In Turin, from 1825 to 1835, it was
worth about 1702 gr. In the fifteenth century even, the foreign embassadors complain of
the enormous cost of living there. So, for instance, <hi rend='italic'>Raumer's</hi>
histor. Taschenbuch, 1833, 162. Compare also, <hi rend='italic'>Carli</hi>, Del Valore
della Proporzione dei Metalli monetati con i Generi in Italia prima delle Scoperte dell'
Indie, 1760, in which he, indeed, exaggerates the matter, and seeks to prove his
views by the coarsest sophistry.</note>
</p>

<p>
From the second third of the seventeenth century, the value
of the medium of circulation seems, on the whole, to have remained
stationary.<note place='foot'>The chief result of <hi rend='italic'>Helferich's</hi>
excellent researches. (<hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi>, loc. cit.) The general
opinion, indeed, is that this <hi rend='italic'>statu quo</hi> of the value of the
precious metals was interrupted about the middle of the eighteenth century by
another decline, and that the latter yielded to a subsequent rise in 1815 and
afterwards. Thus <hi rend='italic'>David Hume</hi>, History of England, ch. 44, App. 31,
ch. 49, App. A. <hi rend='italic'>Young</hi>, Political Arithmetics, ch. 6. More
recently, <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, I, § 176. <hi rend='italic'>M.
Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III, 320 ff. One of the principal advocates of the opinion that
every increase made in the medium of circulation produces a corresponding depreciation
is <hi rend='italic'>Nebenius</hi>, Deutsche Vierteljahrsschrift (1841). In England a
quarter of wheat was worth, on an average, 38s. 8/9d., from 1595 to 1685. On a similar
stability of corn prices in Belgium, see <hi rend='italic'>Schwerz</hi>, Belgische
Landwirthschaft, III, 37. According to Suckburg (l.c.), the value in exchange of money
from 1640 to 1700 declined 32-2/9 per cent.; from 1700 to 1760, 43 per cent.; from 1760
to 1806, 84 per cent.</note> Tooke seeks to demonstrate the steady
<pb n='415'/><anchor id='Pg415'/>
decline of the value of money until late in the eighteenth century,
from the fact that the wages of labor increased during
that time; but I should rather connect the latter phenomenon
with the simultaneous elevation of the classes engaged in
manual labor. And so Adam Smith infers a rise in the price
of money after the beginning of the eighteenth century, from
the prices of wheat;<note place='foot'>From 1637 to 1700 the price of corn in England
averaged 51 shillings; from 1701 to 1764 only 40½ shillings.</note>
but it would be better to consider the
cause of this to be the unusually long series of good crops.<note place='foot'>Thus,
the dearness of wheat in Germany, during the first thirty years
after the Thirty Years' War was caused, in large part, by the depopulation
produced by the War.</note>
An equally unusually long series of bad harvests, during the
second half of the century, accounts satisfactorily for the simultaneous
rise of the medium prices of corn. The great war
which lasted from 1793 to 1815, too, according to a very
prevalent opinion, must have caused the value of money to
decline; a fact which is generally accredited to the increase
of paper money in so many states.
</p>

<p>
Every great war may very easily have for effect to slacken
the speed of the circulation of money, to promote the hoarding
and even the burial of treasure for a rainy day, and to paralyze
credit and its power to supply the place of money.
Hence, it seems preferable to seek for the cause of the variations
in price, during the great war, in the commodities themselves
whose price was affected; since their production must
<pb n='416'/><anchor id='Pg416'/>
have been enormously disturbed. It rendered the brawniest
men and the most powerful horses unproductive, and even
employed them as agents of destruction. It interrupted trade
in a thousand ways, or drove it into unnatural channels, and
turned the intellectual interests of nations into every direction
save that of economic industry. To this must be added the
absence of security everywhere.<note place='foot'>In Germany, also, the cause of the
enhanced dearness of so many goods during the Thirty Years' War is to be sought for
in the goods themselves.</note>
</p>

<p>
The cessation of these restrictions upon production, in consequence
of the restoration of peace throughout the world and
the great progress afterwards made in almost all branches of
industry, explain why, from 1818 to 1848, the precious metals
have apparently stood higher than during the period immediately
preceding.<note place='foot'>Since 1815, most Birmingham and Sheffield wares have
fallen from 50 to 70 or 80 per cent. in price&mdash;at least from 20 to 30.
(<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, Statist. Account, I, 705.) The Quarterly Review,
May, 1830, speaks even of an average decline of prices of English commodities in
general, of 50 per cent.</note><note place='foot'>Excellently carried out in
<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, III, 1838. That the world's market is
not so very readily affected by an increase of the medium of circulation, is
established by this fact, among others, that the immense exportation of French
metallic money in consequence of the issue of paper money between 1716 and 1720, and
again in 1790 and the following years, is coincident with very low prices of wheat in
the neighboring countries. (<hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi>, loc. cit., 139, 190 ff.)
And yet, in the former case, the amount was 400,000,000 francs, and in the latter, at
least 1,000,000.</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXVIII. Revolution In Prices.&mdash;Influence Of
The Non-Monetary Use Of Gold And Silver.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXVIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXVIII.</head>
<head>Revolution In Prices.&mdash;Influence Of The Non-Monetary
Use Of Gold And Silver.</head>

<p>
To understand why so great an increase in the production
of the precious metals produced so small a decline of their
value in exchange, we must turn our attention to the other
and further uses of gold and silver. The amount devoted to
these uses can never be very accurately determined, since
<pb n='417'/><anchor id='Pg417'/>
governmental stamping of every new gold or silver article
would afford no evidence as to the number of such articles
manufactured out of old articles etc.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>
estimates this part at only 2-½ per cent., <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, at 20,
<hi rend='italic'>Lowe</hi> at 25, <hi rend='italic'>Necker</hi> and
<hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi> at 50, <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi> at 66-⅔ of the
whole quantity worked. It certainly is, in our day, on account of the ever growing
aggregate supply, greater than hitherto; but it is very different in different countries.
<hi rend='italic'>Nebenius</hi>, Deutsche Vierteljahrsschrift, 1851, 56 seq., estimates
the aggregate consumption of new gold and silver for industrial purposes at 14-½
piasters yearly, and in addition to this seven millions of old gold and silver
(<hi rend='italic'>Bruchgold und Bruchsilber</hi>). The annual wear and tear of
previously existing articles of gold and silver, it is estimated, amounts to 4,420,000
piasters (1/420); the annual increase of their aggregate amounts in Europe to 6,000,000
piasters (1-½ per cent., corresponding to the increase of population), and 4,200,000
(one-fifth of the entire consumption), is employed, as he claims, in
gilding, plating etc. The last item is probably much increased by galvanic
silver-plating, the invention of photography etc.</note> Certain it is, however,
that the aggregate amount of gold and silver thus employed,
increases with the increase of luxury and wealth among modern
nations, and that a quantity of the precious metals thus
used, especially when used for purposes of gilding for instance,
is irrestorably lost.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi> embraces in the
amount of metal employed in industrial purposes, in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries, 1/5 of the amount which, after deducting the loss in Asiastic trade, was
added to the gold and silver stores of Europe; i.e., in the seventeenth century, about
2,500,000 piasters yearly; in the eighteenth century, ⅔ (!); that is, annually,
15,000,000 piasters; in 1830, in England, £2,457,221; in France, 120,000; Switzerland,
350,000; in the rest of Europe, 1,605,490; in North America, about 300,000; altogether,
£5,900,000. <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt's</hi> estimate is 21,000,000 piasters;
<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch's</hi>, £6,050,000. According to the records of the Paris
<hi rend='italic'>Monnaie</hi>, the amount of silver ware in France increased seven fold
between 1709 and 1759. (<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>.) In England, between
1807 and 1814, 8,290,000 ounces of silver were stamped for manufacturing
purposes, from 1830 to 1837, only 7,387,000; in 1851, 924,000.
<hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi> estimates the annual consumption of silver, in
Birmingham alone, for plating purposes, at 150,000 ounces; in Sheffield, at 500,000; and
the gold consumption in the pottery districts at £650 per week. Birmingham consumed
(1831) for gilding purposes, £1,000 gold yearly. (<hi rend='italic'>Whately.</hi>) It now
employs weekly 3,000 ounces of gold and 6,000 ounces of silver in the manufacture
of gold and silver ware, besides the quantity intended for gilding
and silver-washing purposes. (Quart. Rev., April, 1866, 381.) The jewelers
of New York manufacture yearly 3,000,000 of dollars worth of gold and
silver ware, mostly new material. (Economist, April 16, 1853.) There were
in Vienna, in 1781, only 167 workers in gold and silver; in 1840, 229; in 1847,
539. (<hi rend='italic'>Baumgartner</hi>, in the Wiener Akademie, May 3, 1857.)
<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi> estimates the aggregate mass of gold and silver ware, in
plate, instruments etc., in Europe and America, to be 1-¼ as great as that of the ready
money; and in England alone to be twice as great (ch. 28); while
<hi rend='italic'>Tengoborski</hi> thinks that at the beginning of the nineteenth
century, the coin constituted ⅔ of the entire amount of the precious metals. Sometimes a
movement in the opposite direction takes place, as, for instance, in those revolutions
in which the silver of the church was confiscated; in the unfortunate wars of Louis
XIV., etc. <hi rend='italic'>Nebenius</hi>, loc. cit., 17, mentions a South German
silversmith who melted down in the years succeeding 1802, monastery silver to the
amount of 11,000,000 guldens.</note> In addition to this, there is the wear and
<pb n='418'/><anchor id='Pg418'/>
tear of coin in circulation, which is naturally greater in the case
of large pieces than of small, and, therefore, in the case of
silver than of gold. There is, further, the damage caused by
the loss of coin in conflagrations and shipwrecks, and that
occasioned by buried and forgotten treasure.<note place='foot'>On the wear and tear of
coin, see § <ref target="Section_120">120</ref>, and <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, in
the Archiv. der politischen Oek., I, 1841. Compare also, <hi rend='italic'>Faust</hi>,
Concilia pro Aerario, 1641, 263 ff. This wear and tear is so great that
<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi> supposes that it alone would suffice to reduce an
amount of money under Constantine the Great of 5,000 millions to 300 millions, in the
time of Philip IV. (ob. 1314.) Cours, II, 322. How great a number of coins, especially
of the smaller denominations, are entirely lost is evident from the fact, that at the
time of the demonetization of the 15-sous and 30-sous pieces of 1791-92, amounting to
25,000,000, only 16,000,000 were presented for redemption. Of the 10-centime
pieces stamped with an N, amounting to 3,286,932 francs, there were only
2,000,000 left when they were withdrawn from circulation, and this although
individuals had added to the coinage. (<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, III, 321.)
The total loss caused on this score, <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi> estimates at 1 per
cent. per annum, and <hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi>, at ¾ per cent. The greater the
aggregate stock of gold and silver, the greater the absolute amount of wear and tear.
If, therefore, there were annually an equal influx of mineral products to the markets,
the pressure of this increase of supply from that cause alone would take the shape of a
converging series of prices. (<hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, History of Prices, II, 151
ff.)</note>
</p>

<p>
But, lastly, the principal cause consists in the powerful increase
of the demand for money, which, during the last two
centuries, the great impulse given to the rapidity of circulation,
and the great increase in the substitutes for money, have
scarcely been able to outweigh. Besides the great growth
<pb n='419'/><anchor id='Pg419'/>
of population and of wealth, at least in Europe and the new
world, I need call attention only to the immense advance made
in the division of labor, and to the transition from trade by
barter to trade through the instrumentality of money. The
entire war and merchant marine of England, about 1602, had,
according to Anderson, a capacity of only 45,000 tons,&mdash;that
is, not one-fifth of what the small city of Bremen has now; a
capacity which at the close of the year 1873 amounted to
237,206 tons&mdash;while in 1872 its merchant marine alone had
a capacity of 7,213,000 tons. The aggregate foreign trade
of England, France, Russia and the United States, in 1750,
amounted to about 260,000,000 thalers; in 1864, it was over
5,400,000,000, and between 1871 and 1872, in one year,
over 9,000,000,000 thalers. Nor should it be forgotten that
Europe's trade with the East, since the beginning of the sixteenth
century, increased immensely. This, at present, produces
uniformly a very <q>unfavorable balance</q> for Europe,
which can be made up for only by very large shipments of
silver to foreign parts.<note place='foot'><p>The British East India Company
exported gold and silver on an average per annum from:
</p>
<p>
1711-1720, £434,000<lb/>
1721-1730, 532,000<lb/>
1731-1740, 487,000<lb/>
1741-1750, 631,000<lb/>
1751-1760, 571,000<lb/>
1761-1770, 152,000<lb/>
1771-1780, 43,000<lb/>
1781-1790, 393,000<lb/>
1791-1800, 352,000<lb/>
1801-1807, 852,000
</p>
<p>
<hi rend='italic'>Milburn</hi>, Oriental Commerce, 1813, 419. According to
<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Introduction
aux Rapports de l'Exposition de 1867, the trade of Europe and
North America, with India, China, Japan and the Australian islands,
amounted in 1800, to only 410 million francs, in 1866, to 4,024 million. Yet,
for a time, the largely increased exportation of English manufactures to East
India and of East Indian opium to China, had changed the relation so that
the exportation of the precious metals from South Asia, by a great deal, more
than counterbalanced the imports. On the other hand, between 1853 and 1856
240,000,000 thalers were shipped to India and China from England and the
Mediterranean harbors; in 1863 and 1864, even as much as 300 millions, to
be, for the most part, buried there. Moreover, the immense quantity of cash
money&mdash;often as much as from 12 to 15 million in pounds sterling&mdash;in the
state treasury, and silver ornaments (§§ 44, 123) customary in India, demand
a considerable yearly supply to make up for wear. <hi rend='italic'>Newmarch</hi> speaks
of 400 million pounds sterling which can be maintained in its condition hitherto by
a yearly increase of 1 per cent. (History of Prices, VI, 723.) From 1865 to
1869, English steamships carried gold and silver to the East in the following
quantities, yearly: 93.9, 66.3, 24.6, 70.2 and 60.4 million thalers, in addition
to which almost as much came directly from California. Statist. Journ.,
1871, 122 seq.</p></note> If China and India were suddenly to
<pb n='420'/><anchor id='Pg420'/>
draw on us for other commodities instead of gold and silver,
the result would be a great revolution in prices in Europe.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXXXIX. History Of Prices.&mdash;Californian And
Australian Discoveries.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXXXIX.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXXXIX.</head>
<head>History Of Prices.&mdash;Californian And Australian
Discoveries.</head>

<p>
Tengoborski is of opinion, that the flow of gold from Siberia
alone would have been absorbed by the ever-increasing
want of civilized nations of money; but that the coincident discoveries
in California and Australia, in September 1847, and
February 1851, must sooner or later produce a revolution in
prices. And, indeed, the fecundity of these countries is unparalleled.
North America, which in 1846 produced only
3,600 pounds of gold, according to Sœtbeer, produced in the
years from 1849 to 1863, respectively, 118,000, 148,000, 178,000,
195,000, 180,000, 165,000, 165,000, 165,000, 160,000, 145,000,
125,000, 120,000, 115,000 and 110,000. Austria produced in
the years from 1851 to 1863 respectively, 27,000, 196,000,
250,000, 160,000, 170,000, 195,000, 180,000, 175,000, 160,000,
150,000, 160,000, 160,000, 170,000, pounds of gold.
</p>

<p>
From 1864 to 1867, the aggregate production of gold in the
world was, according to the last mentioned authority, a yearly
average of 188.4 millions of thalers, and of silver, 94.8 millions.
In Europe, Russia not included, the production was, in 1863,
<pb n='421'/><anchor id='Pg421'/>
3,960 pounds of gold and 405,000 pounds of silver; in the
Russian Empire, 46,500 pounds of gold and 40,000 of silver; in
Mexico 12,000 pounds of gold and 1,250,000 pounds of silver; in
South and Central America, 12,500 pounds of gold and 520,000
pounds of silver; in Africa, India and Lesser Asia, 30,000 pounds of gold and 40,000
pounds of silver&mdash;a total of 384,000 pounds of gold, and 2,905,000 pounds of
silver. F.X. Neumann<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Tooke-Newmarch</hi>, History of
Prices, VI, 147 ff., estimates the aggregate stock of gold at
the end of 1848 at £5,600,000; in 1856, at £172,000,000 more.
According to <hi rend='italic'>Lavasseur</hi>, the amount of silver in the East
increased, between 1848 and 1857, from 22 to 24 milliards of francs; and the amount of
gold from 9-½ to 15-½ milliards. (Annuarie d'Economie politique, 1858, 632.) The
total amount of gold and silver in the civilized world, <hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi>
estimated at from 55 to 60 milliards of francs, in 1870. (L'Or et l'Argent, Enquête, 19.)
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Mason</hi>, The Gold Regions of California from the Official
Reports, 1848. <hi rend='italic'>Tengoborski</hi>, Sur les Gîtes aurifères de la
Californie et de l'Australie, 1853. Goldfield's Statistics issued from the Mining
Department in Victoria, 1862. <hi rend='italic'>W. R. Blake</hi>, The Production of the
precious Metals, or statist. Notice of the principal Gold and Silver producing Regions
of the World (New York, 1869).</note><note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Soetbeer's</hi>
Denkschrift betr. die deutsche Münzeinigung Mai, 1869, and earlier yet, in
<hi rend='italic'>Faucher's</hi> Vierteljahrsschrift, 1865, II. According to
<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, all the mines of the world, a short time previous
to 1865, produced 284,000 kilogrammes of gold, and 190,000 kilogrammes of silver in a
year: a total of 373,000 thalers (Journal des Economistes, June, 1866), while, in
1848, the total amount of gold coinage in the world was estimated at 560,000,000;
Great Britain, France, North America and Sidney had, since that
time and up to 1871, added to this £597,780,000. The additions have been
made in decreasing quantities: thus, 1857-59, 37.2 millions annually; 1869-71,
16.99 millions annually. (Statist. Journ., 1872, 376 ff.) The estimates as to
how much a gold-digger might make in a day have been variously estimated.
Thus, <hi rend='italic'>Larkin</hi> estimates it from $25 to $50;
<hi rend='italic'>Mason</hi>, at $10; <hi rend='italic'>Folson</hi>, at $25 to
$40; <hi rend='italic'>Butler King</hi>, at $16, reckoning one ounce at $16. All these
estimates seem to give an altogether too high average. In Australia, according to
<hi rend='italic'>Khull</hi>, Colonial Review, June, 1853, a digger can produce only one
ounce daily, or less than 4 thalers. According to <hi rend='italic'>W. Stamer</hi>,
Recollections of a Life of Adventure, II, 1866, a gold-washer in Victoria earned in
1858, on an average, £250 per year; in 1865, only £70; while day labor was worth 15
shillings. Hence, great hopes have to be built on the lottery-nature of gold-washing.
On the Rhine, a gold-washer is satisfied with ⅔ of a gramme of
gold, that is worth from 13 to 18 silver groschens. (<hi rend='italic'>Daubrée</hi>,
Comptes rendus de l' Académie des Sciences, XXII, 639.) It should be borne in mind,
however, that the Rhine-lander devotes to gold-washing only the leisure time
which his avocation as a fisherman leaves him, while the gold-washer in the
new world, as a rule, devotes his whole time to it; and that his labors are interrupted
by the long rainy season, attacks of fever etc. To this must be
added the great difference of the average prices of the means of subsistence
and the difference of all social conditions.</note>
estimates that the whole world produced, in the years
<pb n='422'/><anchor id='Pg422'/>
1868-1870, annually, 192.8 million thalers of gold, and 94 million
thalers of silver; and in 1873, of both metals, 291 million
thalers.
</p>

<p>
The question, whether in this second half of the nineteenth
century, we are to have a revolution in prices similar to that
which took place in the sixteenth century can be answered
only hypothetically. The gold diggings now most productive
will, probably, as we may judge from analogous cases in the
past, be soon exhausted.<note place='foot'><p>Compare, for instance, on the early
productiveness of the Brazilian gold districts which soon ceased:
<hi rend='italic'>Spix und Martius</hi>, Reise nach Brasilien, I, 262 f.,
350. <hi rend='italic'>Gardner</hi>, Travels in the Interior of Brazil, 1846. On
Hispaniola, see <hi rend='italic'>Benzoni</hi>, N. Mundo, I, 61, and
<hi rend='italic'>Peschel</hi>, Gesch. der Entdeckungen, 304, 556.
Hitherto, gold had been obtained by the usual mining process, only in very
few places. As a rule, it has been found in alluvial land not far from the
surface. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Ansted</hi>, The Gold-Seekers' Manual, 1849. These
circumstances have made the production of gold important from the first; and
they still make it comparatively easy, while it causes little demand for capital
but for great skill. As soon, therefore, as the greater part of the country
washed for gold has been worked, which does not require a long time, the
whole is abandoned, while in the production of silver the great amount of
capital fixed in pits, shafts, kilns etc. ties the parties engaged in the enterprise
to the spot, and necessitates the continuation of the enterprise. In recent
times, however, Australia and California have developed the mining and
machine production of gold to a surprising extent. According to
<hi rend='italic'>Laur</hi>, La Production des Métaux précieux en Californie, 1862, 33,
and the Journal des Economistes, Nov. 1862, Californian gold-quartz produced, in 1851,
on an average, 635 francs per ton; in 1860, only from 80 to 85 francs; but the
gold-washing methods have become cheaper in the ratio of 2,500:1. However,
the production of the precious metals seems even now to be decreasing.
According to the Statist. Journal, 1866, 99, it amounted on an average to:
</p>
<p>
in 1849-51, gold £23.9 million, silver £15.5 million.<lb/>
in 1852-56, gold 38.7 million, silver 16.1 million.<lb/>
in 1857-59, gold 36.5 million, silver 17.1 million.<lb/>
in 1860-63, gold 33.5 million, silver 18.2 million.<lb/>
in 1864-68, gold 30.0 million, silver 19.5 million.
</p>
<p>
The number of gold-diggers in Victoria steadily decreased from 125,764 in
1857, to 63,053 in 1867.</p></note> But it is entirely possible that, for
<pb n='423'/><anchor id='Pg423'/>
a long series of years, other diggings will be found equally
rich. It is almost certain that the restless activity of the English
and of North Americans will not cease until they have
exhausted the favors of nature.<note place='foot'>One of the
chief difficulties in the way of the production of gold is the
loss by embezzlement, which is estimated at an average of 20 per cent.
Small companies of men working on their own account would be less exposed
to temptation, and the Anglo-Saxon races and the North Americans
are very well adapted thereto. (<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, III,
261.)</note> Every improvement in agriculture,
in the means of communication, and in the public security
of the gold lands, makes the cost of production smaller.
There are doubtless in other countries a great many <hi rend='italic'>placers</hi>
which need only to be touched with the finger of European
civilization to produce gold in abundance.<note place='foot'>Gold
is in a certain sense one of the most widespread of metals, although
it is found anywhere only in small quantities; so that on the Rhine, for instance,
it takes from 17 to 22 millions of gold grains to make a kilogramme.
An extraordinary large number of places owe their civilization to gold-seekers.
Compare <hi rend='italic'>Tacitus</hi>, Agr., 12. I select the following <q>finds</q>
from <hi rend='italic'>Ritter's</hi> Erdkunde. The Shangallas (I, 249); still more the
terrace of Fazoglu itself (I, 253, compare <hi rend='italic'>Bruce</hi>, Travels, V, 316,
VI, 255, 342), in Monomotapa (I, 140); in Manica, west from Sofala (I, 145), especially
since the suppression of the slave trade (I, 305, 471); in Mandigo land (I, 360, 372);
on the road from Gambia to Timbuctoo (I, 457); on Lake Mangara (I, 493); between
Timbuctoo and Finnin (I, 445); in Nubia (I, 667, seq.); unused silver and
quicksilver mines on the lower Bagradas (I, 493); gold wealth at Malacca,
<hi rend='italic'>aurea chersonesus</hi> (V, 6 f., 27); Tonkin, Lao and Ava (III, 926, 1,
216, IV, I, 213); Assam (IV, 294); smaller Thibet (III, 657); Kashmere (III, 1,155); on
upper Setledsch (III, 654 ff., 668); in the mountainous sources of the Indus
(III, 508, 529, 593, 608); on the Cabool (VII, 23); in Peshaver (VII, 223);
Badakschan (VII, 795); rich silver mines abandoned for want of wood near
Herat (VIII, 243); in Armenia (X, 273). It is said that in southern China
there are great treasures of the precious metals, the removal of which has
been opposed thus far. (IV, 756.) Arabia's richness in gold mines, spoken of
by <hi rend='italic'>Diodor.</hi>, II, 50, III, 45, and
<hi rend='italic'>Agatharch</hi>, De Mare rubro, 60, is of doubtful
existence, as no traces of them are to be found in the country to-day.
On the other hand, on both shores of the Pacific Ocean, the portions of the
earth richest in volcanoes seem to possess almost everywhere quantities of gold
equal to those of California and Victoria. (Edinburgh Review, Jan., 1863,
82 ff.) What an amount of treasure can be obtained at times from old and
long since forgotten <q>finds</q> is proved by the Altai (that is gold mountain),
which even the old Tschudi had rummaged (<hi rend='italic'>K. Ritter</hi>, II); and where
Herodotus' (III, 16) love of truth, so frequently called in question, has recently
been so brilliantly vindicated. Compare <hi rend='italic'>v. Ungern-Sternberg</hi>, Gesch.
des Goldes, 1835. <hi rend='italic'>A. Erman</hi>, Ueber die geographische Verbreitung des
Goldes, 1835. According to <hi rend='italic'>Murchison</hi>, Siberia, ch. 17, gold is to
be found only <q>in crystalline and paleozoic rocks, or in the drift from these rocks,
which is a tertiary accumulation of the pliocene age;</q> and that it is found most
abundantly <q>in quartz-ore, vein-stones and traverse altered Silurian slates,
chiefly lower Silurian, frequently near their junction with eruptive rocks.</q></note>
It would, indeed,
be necessary that this same civilization should make these
same countries better markets for the precious metals by increasing
their demand.
</p>

<pb n='424'/><anchor id='Pg424'/>

<p>
So far as silver is concerned, there can be no question that
America possesses mines unlimited in extent, and, as yet,
almost untouched. <q>The time will come,</q> says Duport,<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, N. Espagne, IV, 147 ff.; <hi rend='italic'>St. Clair
Duport</hi>, Essai sur la Production des Metaux précieux en Mexique, 1843;
<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours., III, 483 ff.</note> <q>a
century sooner or later, when the production of silver will
have no other limits than those put to it by the continual
decline in the price of silver.</q> There seems, also, to be no
lack of quicksilver, especially in California; and the cost of
its production hitherto may be lessened very much by the
labor of better workmen, machines and means of transportation.<note place='foot'>The
cost of a kilogramme of silver, expressed in terms of silver itself,
up to the moment that it is shipped, is estimated by <hi rend='italic'>Duport</hi> as
follows: salt and <hi rend='italic'>magistral</hi>, 61 grammes; quicksilver, 112
grammes; stamping it, 171 grammes; transformation of the ore, 72 grammes; rent and
superintendence, 38; duties etc., 145; smelting, transportation and shipping, 35. There
remains as profit for mining it, 336 grammes. As to how the production of American
silver increases and runs parallel with the cheapness of quicksilver, see
<hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, N. Espagne, IV, 91 ff.</note>
All this supposes great progress of the mining countries
in civilization in general; and yet, thus far, Mexico's republican
independence etc., as compared with the later years of the
Spanish colonial system there, is a great retrogression. The
conquest of Spanish America by the United States would
give a vast impetus to economic improvement; and here,
<pb n='425'/><anchor id='Pg425'/>
again, the increase of production would be attended by an increased
demand.
</p>

<p>
But especially must the demand for the precious metals,
which naturally increases with the wealth, commerce and luxury
of nations, constitute a decisive element in answering our
question. Nothing, for instance, were a reduction in prices
impending, would promote it so much as a series of devastating
wars or revolutions in Europe. Moreover, it should not
be forgotten, that the money market is now almost commensurable
with the world, and will soon embrace it within its
limits; and that market embraces not only the precious metals
but the numberless representatives of money and media of
credit. The basin, therefore, to which the gold and silver
streams of the world are tributary is immeasurably greater
than it was in the sixteenth century; its level cannot be changed
as readily, and an equal addition made every year to its previous contents can
increase it only by a small amount.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi>
calculates that the absolutely much smaller yearly increment
to the amount of the precious metals in the sixteenth century, frequently 1/12,
now constitutes only 1/50 of the greater existing amount. (L'Or et l'Argent
Enquête, 50.)</note> Nor
could a considerable decline of the value of the precious metals
be readily produced without making the circulation of
money slower, and the employment of means of credit relatively
less frequent, in consequence of which, the further decline
would, to a certain extent, be arrested.<note place='foot'>In the
United States the stock of cash money in 1820 was estimated at
5.1 thalers per capita; in 1849, at 8.6 thalers; in 1854, on the other hand, at
13 thalers.</note> In the case of
other commodities a decline of prices leads only probably to
an absolutely greater demand; in the case of money, it leads
to a demand necessarily greater. That the money market in
our days can stand pretty rude shocks is evident from the
fact, among others, that the price of gold is so high as compared
with that of silver.<note place='foot'>The weight of the mass of
gold introduced into Europe annually stood to that of silver in
the ratio of 1:60-65 in the seventeenth century; in the
first half of the eighteenth century, in that of 1:30; in the second half, in
that of 1:40; and yet the variations in price were not in the least parallel.
According to <hi rend='italic'>Sœtbeer</hi> (Beiträge und Materialien zur
Beurtheilung von Geld und Bankfragen, 1855, 102 seq.), the average silver-course
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>silbercurs</foreign>) of gold
had, 1852-54, sunk only 2.05 per cent., as compared with that of 1800-40.
And yet the value of the annual production of gold stood to the annual production
of silver, in the beginning of the nineteenth century, as 29 to 71; in
1846, as 47 to 53; in 1848-56, as 3 to 1.</note><note place='foot'><p>While
the public, even since 1850, think they have noticed a depreciation
in the value of money, there are a great many learned political economists
who are by no means prepared to grant it. The principal advocates of this
opinion are <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, and <hi rend='italic'>Newmarch</hi>, in vol.
VI. of the History of Prices (1857). Also <hi rend='italic'>Lavergne</hi>, in the
Journal des Economistes. And really the enhanced dearness of
many kinds of goods up to 1857, might have been accounted for
by causes affecting the goods themselves: diminished supply by reason of
bad harvests, commercial gluts etc.; increased demand by capitalization on a
gigantic scale, speculation, but especially by the elevation of the lower
classes etc.
</p>
<p>
The London wholesale prices were on the 1st day of January, 1869, nearly
all lower by 10 per cent. than on the 1st day of July, 1857. Only indigo,
cotton and meat had risen. (<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrb., 1870, I, 328.) In
many instances the enhanced dearness is entirely local, by reason of the
greater facilities for transportation in places where prices were already higher.
But as new truths are very easily exaggerated by their discoverers,
much of Tooke's view concerning these events depends upon a polemic carried
too far against the theory of the balance of trade which was customary
in the so-called currency school. Compare, in opposition to Tooke,
<hi rend='italic'>Lavasseur</hi>, in the Journal des Economistes, March, 1838, and
<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, La Baisse probable de l'Or, 1858.
<hi rend='italic'>Lavasseur</hi>, from the difference between the
official and real custom-house prices in France, calculates that raw materials
in 1856 were on the average 63 per cent., and in 1858, 20 per cent. higher than
in 1826; and that manufactured articles were in 1856, just as high, and in
1858, 6 per cent. lower than in 1856. An average made of all commodities
showed, in 1856, an enhancement of 30 per cent, and in 1858 of 9 per cent.
(<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrb., 1864, II, 118.)
</p>
<p>
In the Hamburg market in 1847-65, 87 articles declined in price, 183 rose
in price, and 24 remained about stationary. (Amtl. Statistik von 1887, 18 ff.)
<hi rend='italic'>Jevons</hi> assumes a general rise in the price of commodities between
1849 and 1869 of about 18 per cent. (Economist, May 8, 1869.) He makes this estimate
from the average March prices of 50 of the principal articles. Assuming
the average March price of 1849=100, we have, according to him, for
the following years, respectively: 101, 103, 101, 116, 130, 125, 129, 132, 118,
120, 124, 123, 124, 123, 122, 121, 128, 118, 120, 119. Previous years showed:
1789=133; 1799=202; 1809=245; 1819=175; 1829=124; 1839=144.
(Compare supra, § <ref target="Section_129">129</ref>, note 1.) The budget of a Swiss
teacher's family consisting of five persons has become dearer since 1840 ff., their
consumption remaining the same and of only the simplest articles, by 72.5 per cent.
(Böhmert, Arbeiterervhältnisse etc., I, 302 ff., 355.) That, however, the depreciation
is under-estimated most precisely in England and over-estimated in Germany,
<hi rend='italic'>Knies</hi> very well accounts for by the price-leveling effects of the
more modern means of communication. (Tübinger Zeitschr., 1858, 280 ff.)</p></note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='426'/><anchor id='Pg426'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXL. Revolution In Prices.&mdash;Its Influence On The
National Resources.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXL.'/>
<anchor id="Section_140"/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXL.</head>
<head>Revolution In Prices.&mdash;Its Influence On The National
Resources.</head>

<p>
The ulterior consequences of such a revolution in prices
would contribute to the real wealth of a people only in the
sense that they would place such a people in a way, with less
sacrifice, to employ the precious metals on a large scale in ministering
<pb n='427'/><anchor id='Pg427'/>
to the luxuries of life. This small advantage itself
would be counterbalanced by the depreciation of the metallic
stock, and especially by the necessity of henceforth devoting a larger quantity
of gold and silver to the purposes of circulation.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Leibnitz</hi>, on the consequences which would follow the realization
of the dreams of the alchemists. It would be a great misfortune, since then a
pocket would no longer suffice for the transportation of money, and people
would have to use wheel-barrows as they do now in Sweden. (Opera ed.
Dutens, V, 199, 401.)</note>
But such a revolution would produce a sudden reverse
in the distribution of a nation's wealth among its constituent
members. All those who, by virtue of contracts antecedently
made, have payments to effect, are benefited to the extent of the difference between
the old and the actual price, while those who are to receive such payments
lose to the same extent.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Beccaria</hi> considers
it equitable that the debtor should always pay the original
value of the metal. (E.P., IV, 2, 17.) <hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>, on the other
hand, would not permit individuals, even when the state arbitrarily causes a diminution
in the real value of money, to maintain the real value of the coinage in their
contracts. (Della Moneta, V. 3.)</note>
Therefore, those engaged in industrial enterprises improve
their condition, because they immediately increase<note place='foot'>It is
precisely this class which first comes to an understanding of the essential
nature of the change effected.</note> the prices
<pb n='428'/><anchor id='Pg428'/>
of their own productions; and, for a time at least, continue the
use of capital borrowed from others, of land leased or rented
etc. at the old prices.<note place='foot'>Thus the English lessees,
who in the sixteenth century had leases for a long term
of years, saw themselves rise in the social scale in consequence
of the revolutions in price&mdash;a fact of importance in the political struggles
of the seventeenth century. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Sir F. M. Eden</hi>, State of the
Poor, I, 119 ff.</note>
</p>

<p>
Besides, at the beginning, and before a corresponding depreciation
of its value has taken place, an increase of money
produces as a rule a low rate of interest (§ 185), and an itch to
buy on the part of the public. All this may serve as a powerful
stimulant to production on a large scale.<note place='foot'>Too  much stress
is laid upon this by <hi rend='italic'>Tooke-Newmarch</hi>, who, on that account,
considers almost every increase of the precious metals as a blessing.
As a matter of fact, the population of Australia, of the United Kingdom,
and of the United States, increased, between 1848 and 1871, 44.5 per cent.;
the production of coal and of railroads in England, between 1856 and 1869,
by about 60.6 per cent.; the English production of woolen goods, linen and
cotton and yarn, between 1848 and 1870, by from 110 to 335 per cent.
(Statist. Journal, 1872, 376 ff.)</note> Those most
certain to suffer loss are officials<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Luther's</hi>
complaint concerning the poor condition of the clergy. See
<hi rend='italic'>Schmoller</hi>, in the Tübinger Ztschr., 1860. This very clearly
shows how much surer for the crown domains are than a civil list, and donations of land
to a church than payments in money. Law of Elizabeth, 18 Eliz., that, in the
case of university property, ⅔ of the lease rent should be paid in metal and
⅓ in corn. In <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith's</hi> time, this latter third was worth as
much again as the other two. (I, ch. 5.)</note> with a fixed salary, and so-called
annuitants, creditors of the nation and of individuals.
Even bankers, too, have no means to fix the value of their wares
which they see disappearing, so to speak under their eyes.<note place='foot'>In
the sixteenth century, this class was of small importance in most countries;
in our times, their ruin would cause general disturbance. The wiser
class of capitalists would, indeed, find means to exchange their credits for
more certain values, or make it a condition that they should receive in the
end a large sum.</note>
Of land owners, those who are in debt gain, that is especially
the poorer, and the more speculative among them.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance,
the son of a deceased land owner who retains the
lands as his own acquits himself towards his brothers who have entered the
military or civil service of their country by paying them a certain sum periodically.
If a revolution were really impending, the owners of land would
soon emulate one another to improve their estates by borrowing capital, if
for no other reason, to turn the depreciation of the medium of circulation to
their own advantage. In the sixteenth century, the indebtedness of land
owners was relatively unimportant.</note> On the
<pb n='429'/><anchor id='Pg429'/>
other hand, owners of large estates who have alienated their
tithe-rights, or right to vassal-service etc. for capital, or for
fixed sums to be paid at regular intervals, that is, in a great
many places the great mass of the nobility, undergo a not
insignificant social fall.
</p>

<p>
The condition of those who earned a living by manual labor
no doubt deteriorated in the sixteenth century, as may be inferred
from the extraordinary activity of public charity in
that period.
</p>

<p>
Between 1500 and 1550, silver purchased, in Orleans, from
4.1 to 4.5 times as much common labor as it does now, while
silver, as compared with the average price of twenty-seven
commodities, has grown cheaper in the ratio of only from 2.6
to 2.7:1. (<hi rend='italic'>Mantellier.</hi>) It was impossible for this class to
raise the price of their wares as rapidly as that of the medium
of circulation declined, because they could not wait, nor hold
back their commodity even for a moment. (§ 164.)<note place='foot'>It appears
from <hi rend='italic'>Roger's</hi> Tables, Statist. Journal, 1861, 551 ff., that,
between 1583 and 1620, a time during which the population of England increased
neither in wealth nor in numbers, there was a considerable increase in the
price of nearly all English commodities. Thus, for instance, wheat was,
from 1591 to 1600, 468 per cent., and from 1611 to 1620, even 495 per cent.
higher than from 1530 to 1533. The Saxon laborer earned, in 1599, in corn,
only half as much as in 1455. (Tübinger Ztschr., 1871, 354.)</note> This
would, indeed, be very different in our day. Wages, because
of the facilities, both physical and moral, which have everywhere
been placed in the way of emigration, were necessarily
one of these articles which rose soonest in price, as compared
with money.<note place='foot'>When labor is indispensable to employers,
it may happen that a small decline in the supply may largely raise
the price. Wages, in almost all branches of labor, rose between
1851 and 1856, by about from 15 to 20 per cent.</note>
Lastly, the state itself profits by the diminished
<pb n='430'/><anchor id='Pg430'/>
thing-value, that is, real value of its public debt;<note place='foot'>This,
also, was of little significance in the sixteenth century, but how
important now!</note> but it loses,
at the same time, on all taxes, duties etc., which are not estimated
at a certain percentage of the value of the articles
taxed.<note place='foot'>Income taxes, <hi rend='italic'>ad valorem</hi>
duties and tithes rise and fall in their nominal
amount as the price of the medium of circulation falls and rises.</note>
As a rule, therefore, it would need to impose new
taxes. Now, the parliamentary right to impose taxes, however
extensive it may juridically be, is, ordinarily, of great
importance in practice only when there is question of increasing
the existing burthen. Hence, this right, wherever it exists,
is brought into the utmost activity by a revolution in
prices.<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance, the victory of the English Parliament
over the unlimited power of the crown, in the first half of the seventeenth century, was
very much promoted by the fact that the crown, in spite of all its economy,
was always in financial straits in consequence of the depreciation of money.
(Power of the purse, power of the sword!) However, any force kept steadily
in action is a two-edged sword. While under favorable circumstances, it
may be thereby developed, under unfavorable circumstances it may be
thereby exhausted. How great a number of representative assemblies, during
the revolutions in prices in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, allowed
their energies to grow dormant!</note><note place='foot'>Most of the above
points are very well discussed in the work <hi rend='italic'>W. S.</hi>, cited
above, § <ref target="Section_137">137</ref>.</note>
</p>

<p>
However, the new additions of gold and silver to the already
existing supply may not immediately produce a corresponding
depreciation of the value of the precious metals. If the
first receivers of the additional supply of money exchange it
rapidly for other goods, it will probably bring them the former
value in exchange of the metal. Not until it has passed into
a third or fourth person's hands is the depreciation apt to be
perceptible. It is, therefore, in this case, a great advantage to
be the first hand. The world-threatening power of Spain, in
the seventeenth century, was very essentially promoted by the
American gold and silver mines;<note place='foot'>As no one then
doubted: Compare <hi rend='italic'>W. Raleigh</hi>, The Discovery of
Guiana, Pref. I refer to Philip of Macedon.</note> nor is it a matter of less
<pb n='431'/><anchor id='Pg431'/>
significance to-day, that the great mineral wealth of the world
belongs to Siberia, California and Australia; that is, especially
to Russia and to countries colonized by Great Britain. Further,
as to the classes into which a nation is divided, it was
only the crown, the Church and a comparatively small number of officials,
soldiers and officers who controlled Spanish America;<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Kolonien, Kolonialpolitik und Auswanderung, 1856,
145 ff.</note>
and who can tell how the absolute monarchy of Spain
was strengthened by this fact? In the seventeenth century,
on the other hand, it is principally manufacturers and merchants,
and more especially yet, workmen, who reap the immediate
advantages of new discoveries of gold.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXLI. Effect Of An Enhancement Of The Price Of The
Precious Metals.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXLI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXLI.</head>
<head>Effect Of An Enhancement Of The Price Of The
Precious Metals.</head>

<p>
A great enhancement of the precious metals would naturally and
necessarily produce a revolution in prices in a direction<note place='foot'>Something
similar might have been observed in England in 1819 etc., at
the restoration of a depreciated paper currency. Among nations in a comparatively
low stage of civilization, a variation in the medium of circulation
is of less importance than among more highly civilized nations, because
trade in money, and still more, credit, are relatively speaking undeveloped.</note>
opposite to the one just described, and one which would be
much more injurious to a nation's economy. Such a revolution
would weigh most heavily on the most sensitive, and the
momentarily most productive classes of the people, inasmuch
as the price of the ready product as compared with advances
made for the purposes of production would be a declining one;
and it would benefit those classes who live in leisure on the
fruits of previous labor. There would, at the same time, be
a perceptible growth of consumption in certain departments,
useful, no doubt, in themselves, but apt to degenerate into excess,
and which are, therefore, most easily cared for. (§ 212, seq.)
<pb n='432'/><anchor id='Pg432'/>
To this extent, the gold discoveries of the nineteenth century,
without which an enhancement of the price of money would
undoubtedly have taken place, have warded off a great economic
malady from the nations. Moreover, this inverted revolution
in prices may be moderated by governmental measures, such as a diminution
of taxes, emissions of paper money etc.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Fawcett</hi>
greatly exaggerates when he says that with an increase of population
and wealth, an increase of money is as much a want as hunger. (Manual,
370.)</note>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXLII. The Price Of Gold As Compared With That Of
Silver.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXLII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXLII.</head>
<head>The Price Of Gold As Compared With That Of Silver.</head>

<p>
The price of gold as compared with that of silver does not,
by any means, depend entirely on the ratio of the quantities of
the two to each other. Rather is it, in the long run, determined
by the average cost of production necessary at those
gold and silver mines which exist under the most disadvantageous
conditions, but which it is still necessary to work in
order to satisfy the aggregate requirement of these metals.
On the whole, with an advance of economic civilization, the
dearness of gold as compared with that of silver has been enhanced.
The former, in the middle ages, was worth from ten to
twelve times as much as the latter,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Galiani</hi>,
Dellab Moneta, III, 1. At the time of the Lex Salica, 10:1.
After the Edictum Pistense of Charles II., ch. 24 (<hi rend='italic'>Pertz</hi>, Mon.
Germ., III, 488), 12:1. At the time of the Sachsenspiegel (III, 45), again, 10:1. Under
Saint Louis, King of France, 12.5:1. (<hi rend='italic'>Leblanc</hi>, Traité historique
des Monnaies de la France, ch. 1, 2.) In Poland, 1356, 12:1.
(<hi rend='italic'>Muratori</hi>, Dissertt. Medii Aevi, II, 28.) In England, 1262, 9.6;
1272 = 12.5; 1345 = 13.7:1. (<hi rend='italic'>Rogers</hi>, 1, 593 ff.) Under Henry VI.,
and in 1494 = 12:1. (<hi rend='italic'>Anderson</hi>, Origin of Commerce, a. 1422,
1494.) In Denmark, under the former Kings of the Union = 8:1.
(<hi rend='italic'>Dahlmann</hi>, Dänische Geschichte, III, 52.) And so
throughout almost the whole of Scandinavia's medieval period, as for instance
in the Graugans. (<hi rend='italic'>Wilda</hi>, Gesch. des deutschen Strafrechts, I,
329.) In Italy, 1579 = 12:1. (<hi rend='italic'>Scaruffi</hi>, Sopra le Moneta,
1582.) In Holland, 1589 = 11.6:1. <hi rend='italic'>Bodinus</hi>,
De Republ., 1584, II, 3, maintains 12:1 as the general
ratio; but the Apostolic Chamber adopted the ratio of 12.8:1. In Germany,
according to the instances cited by <hi rend='italic'>A. Riese</hi>, 1522 = 10:1.
The monetary laws of Germany give it in 1524 = 11-⅓:1, in 1551 = 11:1, 1559 = 11-3/7:1;
<hi rend='italic'>Budelius</hi>, De Monetis, 1591 = 11-¼:1. At the beginning of the
seventeenth century the relation in Spain was = 13.3; in Germany = 12.16; in Flanders =
13.22; in England = 13.5:1. (<hi rend='italic'>Forbonnais</hi>, Finances de la France,
I, 52.) About 1641, in Flanders, it was 12.5; in France, 13.5; in Spain, 14.1. Immediately
after Colbert's death it was, in Genoa, 15.03; in Milan = 14.75:1.
(<hi rend='italic'>Montanari</hi>, Della Moneta, 80.) While in the seventeenth century
gold rose, it sank in the eighteenth, on account of the Brazilian gold washings and the
many bank notes in circulation, which were for the most part of a large denomination.
(<hi rend='italic'>Steuart</hi>, Principles, III, ch. 13.) Still it was in Amsterdam
in 1751 = 14.5:1.</note> while now it is
<pb n='433'/><anchor id='Pg433'/>
worth from fifteen to almost sixteen times as much.<note place='foot'>In Hamburg,
the relation of the price of gold to that of silver bars, varied,
between 1816 and 1852, from between 15.11-16.2 to 1 (<hi rend='italic'>Soetbeer</hi>); in
London, from 1816 to 1837, between 15.80 and 14.97 to 1.</note> In the
same period of time, also, gold in highly civilized countries
is wont to be comparatively dearer.<note place='foot'>In Asia, it is generally lower
than in Europe&mdash;for centuries mostly = 10:1. But in Birmah it is = 17:1,
mostly on account of the extent to which indulgence in luxury is carried there.
(<hi rend='italic'>Crawfurd</hi>, Embassy, 433. <hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>,
Erdkunde, V, 244, 266.) Concerning China, see <hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours,
III, 359. In Africa, gold is low as compared with silver, in proportion to
the distance from the civilized world. Thus, an ounce of gold in Shenaar
cost 12 piastres; in Suakim, 20; in Djidda, 22. (<hi rend='italic'>Ritter</hi>,
Erdkunde, I, 538.) In Timbuctoo, Mungo Park found the relation of gold to silver to be
as 1-½:1. Compare Marco Polo, II, 39 seq.</note>
</p>

<p>
These facts are explained as well by the demand as by the
supply. As the production of gold requires so little skill or
capital, and that of silver so much of both, the former may be
considered a natural product to a greater extent than the latter,
and therefore, the rule laid down in § <ref target="Section_130">130</ref> is
applicable to it. (<hi rend='italic'>Senior.</hi>) Besides, in the higher stages of
civilization, especially when the precious metals are cheap, larger payments
are usual, to the making of which, gold is certainly best
adapted; just as in every day trade merchants are wont to
accept a gold piece in payment, even at something of a premium,
while the peasantry hesitate to do so.<note place='foot'>In antiquity, a similar
course is to be observed. According to Manu's Indian laws, VIII,
134 seq., = 2-½:1; in the East, for a long time, = 10:1; under Darius Hystaspis,
= 13:1. (<hi rend='italic'>Herodot.</hi>, 111, 95.) In Greece, in the time
of Lysias, = 10:1 (<hi rend='italic'>Lysias</hi>, pro bonis Arist., Conon);
according to <hi rend='italic'>Plato,</hi> = 12:1 (<hi rend='italic'>Hipparch.</hi>,
231); according to <hi rend='italic'>Demosthenes</hi>, adv. Phorm., 214, = 14:1
(<hi rend='italic'>Böckh</hi>, Staatst., I, 43); Menander's estimate, = 10:1,
probably because Alexander's victory had made gold cheaper.
(<hi rend='italic'>Pollux</hi>, IX, 76.) Among the Romans, about 189 B.C., = 10:1
(<hi rend='italic'>Livy</hi>, XXXVIII, 11); somewhat later, = 11.9:1
(<hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>, in the histor. phil. Berichten der K. Sächs.
Gesellschaft, 1851, 184 ff.); in the fourth century after Christ, = 14:1.
(<hi rend='italic'>Theod.</hi>, Cod. VIII, 4, 27.) We sometimes find sudden variations.
Thus, according to <hi rend='italic'>Polyb.</hi>, XXXIV, 10, gold, in Italy, sank
about ⅓ in consequence of the opening of the mines at Aquilea. It sank to the
proportion of 9:1 when Cæsar spent the contents of the Roman treasure, which consisted
of gold. (<hi rend='italic'>Surton.</hi>, Cæs., 54.) The ratio of 17:1, during
Hannibal's wars, was a species of National bankruptcy. See
<hi rend='italic'>Plin.</hi>, H. N., XXXIII, B.</note>
</p>

<pb n='434'/><anchor id='Pg434'/>

<p>
It is very much of a question whether gold or silver is, on
the whole, subject to greater variations in price. The fact
that gold is more strictly a natural product would of itself
constitute a powerful element of variation. (§ <ref target="Section_112">112</ref>).
But, on the other hand, its greater durability and the greater care bestowed
on its preservation, have for effect to make the existing
quantity preponderate in importance over its annual increase.
The demand for gold varies more suddenly than
the demand for silver. In case of war or sedition, the former
is more easily carried away or hidden. It is also more desirable
for the state for its military fund. On the other hand, on
account of its greater capacity for transportation, it may follow
such claims when made on it, more easily, from country
to country. On the whole, I am inclined to think that, for
short periods of time, silver maintains its value better, and
gold for longer ones.<note place='foot'>After the February revolution,
the gold-agio, as compared with silver, rose from 10-17 to 70 per 1,000.
(<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi> Cours, III, 346.) On the
other hand, since the discovery of America, gold, as compared with commodities,
has declined much less than silver. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Hermann</hi>, Ueber den
gegenwärtigen Zustand des Münzwesens, in <hi rend='italic'>Rau's</hi> Archiv., I, 151
ff. According to <hi rend='italic'>Lord Liverpool</hi>, Treatise on the Coins of the
Realm, the value of gold coin in the London market, as compared with bank notes, varied
in 40 years, almost 5½ per cent.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='435'/><anchor id='Pg435'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section CXLIII. The Price Of Gold As Compared With That Of
Silver. (Continued.)'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section CXLIII.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section CXLIII.</head>
<head>The Price Of Gold As Compared With That Of
Silver. (Continued.)</head>

<p>
If the gold-production of California should be attended<note place='foot'>In
recent times, it has become possible to extract from ancient silver
coins a small quantity of gold, and with some advantage. European industry
produced in this way about 1,600 kilogrammes of gold per annum. One
half of this amount is obtained in France and the rest in Hamburg, Amsterdam,
Brussels and St. Petersburg. (<hi rend='italic'>Michel Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III,
302.)</note> by
a notable depression of the value of that metal, it becomes a
question whether or not silver would be necessarily depreciated
with it. Senior claims that it would not, for the reason
that the two precious metals do not, for most purposes, act as
substitutes each of the other. If a country needed 1,000 pounds of gold and
15,000 pounds of silver as money,<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Senior</hi>,
On the Value of Money, 77 ff. It is certain that a simple variation
in prices would not induce people to have gold table services, or architectural
ornaments of silver.</note> and these
two sums of metal were equal in value, an increase of gold by
one-half, which would depreciate its price in relation to silver
to 10:1, would not overflow the channels of circulation. The
1,500 pounds of gold are now also equal to only 15,000 pounds
of silver, and <hi rend='italic'>vice versa</hi>.
</p>

<p>
I would put very important limitations to this assertion.
Even a moderate depreciation of gold would drive out the
silver from all those countries which had a mixed coinage
made up of the two metals; and hence the supply of silver
would be increased in the other countries. And so it is quite
possible, up to a certain point, that the larger silver coin should
be replaced by small gold ones, ten and five franc pieces etc.
Rau is certainly right in his surmise that a general rise in the
price of commodities as compared with coin, the result of a
great increase of gold, would go farthest in countries in which
the gold is the medium of circulation, begin later in those
<pb n='436'/><anchor id='Pg436'/>
which had a mixed circulation, and continue for the the shortest
time in those countries which, by force of law, had a
silver circulation only.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch,
6th ed., I, § 277 c. In Rau's opinion (loc. cit.) we may,
in the course of the next decades, expect a decline of the price of gold of
about 76 per cent., and of only 10 percent. of the price of silver (because of
the low prices of quicksilver.) But here he seems to overlook entirely what
influence a change of standard in important commercial districts would
have.</note><note place='foot'>Compare the works already mentioned.
<hi rend='italic'>Fleetwood</hi>, Chronicon preciosum,
or an Account of English Gold and Silver Money, the Price of Corn
and other Commodities etc., for Six Hundred Years last past, 1707; <hi rend='italic'>Dupré
de Saint Maur</hi>, Essai sur les Monnaies ou Réflexions sur les Rapports entre
les Denrées et l'Argent, 1746; <hi rend='italic'>Unger</hi>, Ordnung der Fruchtpreise,
1752; <hi rend='italic'>Paucton</hi>, Métrologie ou Traité des Mesures etc., des anciens
Peuples et les modernes, 1780; the appendix to <hi rend='italic'>Macpherson's</hi>
Annals of Commerce, 1805; the tables in <hi rend='italic'>Garnier's</hi> translation of
Adam Smith, vol. II, 1822; <hi rend='italic'>A. Young</hi>, Inquiry into the
progressive Value of Money in England, as marked by the Price of Agricultural Products,
1812; <hi rend='italic'>W. F. Lloyd</hi>, Prices of Corn in Oxford, in the Beginning
of the fourteenth Century, and also from 1583 to the present Time, 1830;
<hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi>, in the Tüb. Zeitschrift, 1858, 471 ff. There are
some very interesting notes on the history of prices during the Merovingian
and Carolingian periods in <hi rend='italic'>Guérard</hi>, Polyptiques, I, 141 ff.</note>
</p>

</div>

</div>

<pb n='437'/><anchor id='Pg437'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc' level1='Appendix I. Paper Money.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Appendix I.'/>
<head type='sub'>Appendix I.</head>
<head>Paper Money.</head>

<pb n='439'/><anchor id='Pg439'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section I. Paper Money And Money-Paper.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section I.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section I.</head>
<head>Paper Money And Money-Paper.</head>

<p>
Paper money must be distinguished from other value-paper
or money-paper,<note place='foot'>Thus, for instance, the bonds (and their
coupons) of states, cities, great corporations, certificates of stock,
mortgages, bills of exchange, checks.</note> which may also run to the possessor or
holder, and not unfrequently serve as a medium of payment.
In the case of these bonds or obligations,<note place='foot'>A Prussian regulation
of 1765 (<hi rend='italic'>Goldschmidt</hi>, Handbuch des Handelsrechts, I, 550), calls
money-paper (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Effecten</foreign>),
instruments of trade in which a value or a <hi rend='italic'>valuta</hi> is
designated.</note> their circulating
capacity is a secondary matter, and the principal thing the
authentication of an economic legal relation; whereas paper
money is intended principally, if not exclusively, to act as
money.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Garnier</hi>, French translation of
Adam Smith, II, 143 ff., distinguishes between coin-paper
and promise-paper: the latter is never found in circulation at the same time
with the capital which it represents. <hi rend='italic'>Say</hi> says that, for instance,
evidences of state indebtedness, state bonds, call for money if they
would circulate, but they seldom act as money in circulation. (Traité, III,
ch. 2.) <hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi> very well determines the difference in his
Richesse Commerciale, I, 160. <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, I, § 293, requires
of all good paper money: a., that its mere transfer, even without any proof of its
rightful acquisition, should suffice to vest the property in it in the receiver; b.,
that the power emitting it should enjoy universal confidence or be able to compel
universal recognition; c., that its redemption should not be fixed for any definite point
of time.</note> Money-paper appears in a great many different
forms, but it nearly always bears interest. Its value depends
in great part on the rate and certainty of its interest. On the
<pb n='440'/><anchor id='Pg440'/>
other hand, the endeavor to insure a more favorable reception
for paper money by the promise of interest has been exceedingly
seldom successful.<note place='foot'>That it is not possible to keep paper money
from declining in value, by the payment of interest, the people of North America
learned from more than one experiment during the eighteenth century.
(<hi rend='italic'>Benjamin Franklin</hi>, Remarks and Facts relative to the Paper
Money of America, 1765.) The same phenomenon was observed in the case of the Spanish
<hi rend='italic'>vales</hi>, which were created during the North American war in
consequence of the absence of the silver fleet. (<hi rend='italic'>Bour-going</hi>,
Tableau de l' Espagne, II, 38 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Humboldt</hi>, N. Espagne, II,
808.) When the Portuguese <hi rend='italic'>apolices</hi> (since 1797) still
bore six per cent. they depreciated in value; and when the payment of the
interest was suddenly stopped, the rate of exchange did not become any
lower. (<hi rend='italic'>Balbi</hi>, Esai statist. sur le Portugal, I, 323.) In
Austria, in September, 1820, the bank notes which bore no interest were at a premium as
compared with the imperial treasury notes, which did bear interest of 1 per cent.,
although the credit of both kinds of paper had ultimately the same foundation,
namely, Austrian state-credit.</note> And in reality, good prospects as
to interest (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Zinsaussichten</foreign>)
and ease of transfer from one hand to another are two qualities which lie in
very different directions.<note place='foot'>The attempt to make paper
money pay interest suggests (as the Saint Simonists recommend it
should, with much ado; <hi rend='italic'>Enfantin</hi>, Ser les Banques,
d' Escompte in the Producteur, 1826), that awkward sword, invented by
Count Wilhelm von Bückeburg, to the blade of which a pistol is affixed!
Shortly before each term for the payment of interest, the circulation of such
paper money would be arrested. If the rate of discount should sink below
the rate of interest such notes bore, they would be sought after eagerly and
disappear in quantities, and, not be ever seen again until the rate of discount
had risen to a high figure, when they would be suddenly presented for redemption.
Such interest-bearing paper money, therefore, would be a serious
element to aggravate the fluctuations of the money-market between good
and bad times. When interest-bearing paper money pays interest at the rate
usual in the country, it is hoarded by misers, (<hi rend='italic'>v. Struensee</hi>.
Abhandlungen, III, 387.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Forbonnais</hi>, Principes
économiques, p. 234, ed. Guill., whereas <hi rend='italic'>v. Prittwitz</hi>, Kunst
reich zu werden (1840, 359), takes delight in elaborating
the idea of an interest-bearing paper money.</note>
</p>

<p>
The many recent writers who claim for paper money the
marks of irredeemableness and forced circulation, confound
the unfortunately too frequent degeneration of an institution
with its real nature. They contradict, too, usage of speech,
which, in countries where silver is the standard, unhesitatingly
<pb n='441'/><anchor id='Pg441'/>
calls gold coins money, although they cannot be forced on any
one.<note place='foot'>Of jurists, see <hi rend='italic'>Thöl</hi>, Handelsrecht, I,
§ 51, and the authorities for and against in <hi rend='italic'>Goldschmidt</hi>,
Handelsrecht, II, Kap. 4, 1, 2. The compulsory circulation of paper
money is an essential element only in reference to the
person that issues it. Of political economists, especially <hi rend='italic'>A.
Wagner</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>Bluntschli's</hi> Staatswörterbuch, Art. Papiergeld,
Band, VII, who, however, is very soon compelled to oppose to paper money <q>proper,</q>
another kind not <q>proper.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> unhesitatingly
accounts bank notes also paper-money. (W. of N., II, ch. 2, p. 28, Bas.)
<hi rend='italic'>Huskisson</hi> understands by <q>paper-money</q>
only the irredeemable paper-money of the state, while bank notes
should be considered as <q>paper currency.</q> (The Question concerning the
Depreciation of our Currency, 1810.)</note> The paper money issued by the state
deserves, indeed, the appellation in the fullest measure; but starting from this
point we find a number of grades in a downward direction,
which may still be called money;<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Seyd</hi>,
Münz, Währungs- und Bankfragen in Deutschland, 50 ff., distinguishes
four classes of paper-money: 1st class, paper-money covered by
cash; 2d class, bank notes covered after the manner of banks; 3d class, state
paper-money; 4th class, such paper money as the notes of the Southern
Confederacy after its defeat.</note> and we shall see especially
that the differences between state paper money and bank
notes so widely asserted are, in great measure, differences not
of kind but of degree.
</p>

<p>
The idea of replacing the precious metals as a medium of
circulation by a less costly material, even the ancients were
acquainted with; but with the exception of the Carthaginians,
they scarcely ever made any use of it except in cases of need
and transitorily.<note place='foot'><p>Even <hi rend='italic'>Plato</hi>, De Legg., V,
742, was acquainted with money after the Spartan
type, intended only for internal trade: νόμισμα ἐπιχώριον, αὐτοῖς
μὲν ἔντιμον τοῖς δὲ ἄλλοις ἀνθρώποις ἀδόκιμον. Besides the state
kept for foreign trade a supply of the universal Hellenic money, of which
in case of need, private individuals could acquire what portion they needed
by exchange. When Dionysius I. issued tin instead of silver money, all the
Syracusans, although they noticed the forgery, acted in their intercourse
with one another as if they considered the coins genuine.
(<hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>, Œcon., II, 21, <hi rend='italic'>Pollux</hi>,
IX, 79.) Timotheos behaved more honorably when, pressed
by the dearth of money, he gave his troops copper coin tokens, which passed
for the time being for their full value in the camp; but which were later to
be redeemed at their full value in silver. (<hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>, Œc.
II, 22.) Compare <hi rend='italic'>Polyæn</hi>, Strateg., IV, 10, 2. The iron
money which the Klazomenians exchanged with the rich for silver, which bore interest,
but which the rich were forced to take, had a longer duration; the silver was used to
pay foreign state creditors, the iron money circulated for the time being in the city,
and was gradually redeemed. (<hi rend='italic'>Aristot.</hi>, loc. cit, II, 17.)
</p>
<p>
We are still more forcibly reminded of paper money by the Carthaginian
leather money, where any object whatever of the size of a coin was shut up
in a leather envelope with the state seal, and then circulated as if it were the
coin it purported to be. <hi rend='italic'>Mieris</hi>, Beschryving der Munstn, 1726,
explains the saga of Dido's ox-skin by means of this leather money. Certain it is,
however, that the surprise with which the sophistical dialogue, Eryxias, mentions
the matter, is a proof how foreign it was to the Greeks. Concerning the
Roman plated denarii which were stamped with the silver coins, but which
were also accepted by the state treasury, see <hi rend='italic'>Mommsen</hi>, R.
G., I, 405.</p></note>
</p>

<pb n='442'/><anchor id='Pg442'/>

<p>
Similarly, the middle ages in Europe; as in general all
greater development of the credit-system&mdash;and all paper
money is credit-money&mdash;has a natural growth only in the
higher stages of civilization.<note place='foot'>In the middle ages,
leather money was issued as a promise of future payment: by the
doge of Venice in the wars of 1122 and 1126 (<hi rend='italic'>Montanari</hi>, Della
Moneta, 34); by King John, of England, during the struggle of the barons
(<hi rend='italic'>Camden</hi>); Emp. Frederick II. at the siege of Faventia
(<hi rend='italic'>Malespini</hi>, Hist. Fior., 130,
<hi rend='italic'>Villani</hi>, Hist. Fior., VI, 21); by Louis IX. during his
captivity (<hi rend='italic'>v. Raumer</hi> Hohenstaufen, V, 461), John of
France, 1360 (<hi rend='italic'>Anderson</hi>, Origin of Commerce).
On the Frankfurt lead marks which were afterwards redeemed by
the <hi rend='italic'>Rechnerei</hi>: <hi rend='italic'>Kirchner</hi>, I, 541.
Lavallette's copper tokens during the siege of Malta had the inscription:
<foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>non æs sed fides</foreign>. The paper
money which was issued during the siege of Leyden, the inhabitants afterwards would rather
preserve than have redeemed, <foreign lang='la' rend='font-style: italic'>ad perpetuam
liberationis divinæ memoriam</foreign>. (<hi rend='italic'>Bornitii</hi>, De Nummis,
1605, I, 15. Distress coins, <hi rend='italic'>melacs</hi>, during the siege
of Landau and of the Hungarian <hi rend='italic'>Ragoczy</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>Marpurger</hi>, Beschreibung der Banquen, 213.
<hi rend='italic'>Krones</hi>, Zur Geschichte Ungarns im Zeitalter R's,
1870.)</note><note place='foot'>The Chinese have had various kinds of paper-money in
their country since the 7th century after Christ. Sometimes they called them <q>flying
coins, convenient coins,</q> and sometimes <hi rend='italic'>coupons</hi>,
<hi rend='italic'>bons</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>conventions</hi>
(<hi rend='italic'>Klaproth</hi>, Mémoires relatives à l'Asie, I, 375 ff.), against
which the caravans, as soon as they had passed the limits were obliged to exchange their
silver (<hi rend='italic'>Pegolotti</hi>, Pratica della Mercatura in Della decima etc.,
III, 3). These had compulsory circulation in China. The great Mongolian khans here
became acquainted with paper-money. (<hi rend='italic'>M. Polo</hi>, II, 21.) Thus,
especially in Persia, where refusal to accept such money and the imitation of it was
punished with death (1340). Compare <hi rend='italic'>Ferishta</hi>, ed.
<hi rend='italic'>Briggs</hi>, I, 414 ff. <hi rend='italic'>d'Ohsson</hi>, Hist. des
Mongols, IV, 101 ff.; II, 487. Even here there occurred cases of state bankruptcy
and finally withdrawals of the depreciated paper. (<hi rend='italic'>Klaproth</hi>,
loc. cit.) In Japan, according to <hi rend='italic'>Oliphant</hi>, Narrative of L.
Elgin's Mission to China and Sapan (1859), all foreign coins were required to
be exchanged against paper-money at the offices of the state bankers.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='443'/><anchor id='Pg443'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section II. Advantages And Disadvantages Of Paper Money.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section II.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section II.</head>
<head>Advantages And Disadvantages Of Paper Money.</head>

<p>
Where it is at all possible to give paper money the same
purchasing power as metallic money possesses, it is unquestionable
that the former must have many advantages over the latter.
True, paper money is very inconvenient for small
amounts;<note place='foot'>Adam Smith mentions North American paper money of the amount of
1 shilling, and Yorkshire bank notes of the amount of 1-½ shillings. Sweden
had, until 1828, notes of 28 <hi rend='italic'>pfennigs</hi>.</note>
but all the more convenient for large amounts, as
well for purposes of counting as for purposes of the storing
up of values and for transmission from place to place; a matter
of greater importance in proportion to the badness of a country's
means of transportation, and to the cheapness of the metal
of its currency hitherto.<note place='foot'>Hence in Sweden, with its copper standard
of long duration, the system of banks of issue was developed very early. The
transport-notes (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Transportzettel</foreign>)
(to be found in that country as far back as 1661) of the Stockholm bank are considered
the oldest bank notes. Compare, however, <hi rend='italic'>Palgrave</hi>,
in the Statist. Journal, 1873. When, in 1768, Catherine II. introduced paper
money into Russia, the people gladly paid ¼ per cent. exchange to the state
treasury for it. (<hi rend='italic'>Brückner</hi>, in
<hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi> Jahrbücher, 1863, 49.) According to
<hi rend='italic'>Cancrin</hi>, Oconomie der menschl. Gesellschaft, 116, private
individuals in from four to five months exchanged 40 millions of silver roubles for paper.
And thus, in 1780, Berlin bank notes stood a few per cent. above par, and the notes
of the S. Carlos-Bank, in 1788, from 1 to 1-½ per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>,
Archiv., II, 161.)</note> It seems a still more important matter
to most people that paper money dispenses with the use of a
great quantity of the precious metals for purposes of circulation,
which can now either be turned into utensils, etc. in the
country itself or used in foreign countries to make investments
of capital there, or in the purchase of commodities.<note place='foot'>When
at times in which paper money is looked upon with diffidence,
peasants and others bury their metallic money, this advantage of course is
lost. On the other hand, the exportation of precious metal money, caused
by the emission of paper money, must not be considered a necessary evil,
but rather as the condition precedent which in most cases makes the above
advantages of the paper money possible for the first time. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Ad.
Wagner</hi>, Die russische Papierwährung (1868), 22, 24, 33.
<hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi>, Proposals for an economical and sure Currency, 1816,
estimated that England, after the abolition of the bank restriction, needed twenty
million pounds sterling. The interest on this amount of capital inclusive of wear and
tear etc., should be estimated at at least ten percent.; that is for the whole kingdom
at at least from two and one-half to three millions a year. On this
<hi rend='italic'>Ricardo</hi> founded his proposal to base the bank notes on gold bars.
In its time, the essay: Guineas an unnecessary and expensive Incumbrance on Commerce, or
the Impolity of repealing the Bank-Restriction Bill considered (London, 1802), met with
great approval.</note> In national
<pb n='444'/><anchor id='Pg444'/>
economies whose commerce is a growing one, the same
advantage finds a negative expression in this, that they are not
compelled to satisfy the increasing demand for money by procuring
costly metals.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> calls attention to
the analogous case in which a manufacturer
replaces a costly machine by a cheap one, sells the former and employs
the difference between the old one and the new in enlarging his
business. (W. of N., II, ch. 2.) When, indeed, all nations have introduced
the use of paper money, the greater portion of the advantages which the one
nation was able to obtain by its means cease, and the only ultimate result is
a depreciation of the value of money and of the precious metals. Formerly
the advantage reaped by the single nation that emitted paper money was
greater than its share in the depreciation. (<hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi>, Enquête
de 1865, 108.)</note> Of the individual members of the nation,
all these advantages of convenience will be experienced
by those who employ the paper money. The economical or
saving advantages of paper money are appropriated by the
issuers to themselves, in the form of a non-interest bearing
loan, which they make to those owners of money or to those
who are entitled to a money-claim and to whom the paper
money is acceptable instead of cash money.<note place='foot'>When
E. Seyd calls bank notes more costly than metallic money, because
the former in England require an outlay for administration of 1-½ per cent.
per annum, while the wear and tear of metallic money amounts to 1 per
cent. only in 20 years (Statist. Journal, 1872, 511), he overlooks the loss in
interest and the costs of coinage in the latter case.</note> A diminution
for instance of the number of bank notes or of state paper
<pb n='445'/><anchor id='Pg445'/>
money does not diminish the available capital of the people.
Its only effect is that a smaller portion of it is at the disposal
of the bank or of the government.
</p>

<p>
But in contrast with these advantages are the great disadvantages,
since paper money is wanting in most of those
properties which originally made the precious metals the best
instruments of exchange and the best measures of value. In
addition to this, paper money may be increased at pleasure,
and at almost no cost; and an occasional surplus of it cannot
flow either into other branches of employment (as a surplus of
metallic money may into utensils, ornamentation, etc.) nor into
other countries. And thus the constancy of value of paper
money, that is, one of the chief requisites of all good money, is
imperiled in the highest degree. True, the payment-power,
or <q>legal tender</q> character given such money by the state
may certainly supplement in some way its matter and form-value.
But this supplement or addition constitutes, in the case
of large amounts<note place='foot'>Related to this
is the fact that in France, during the assignat-crisis, the
large bills of 10,000 francs were harder to get rid of than the small ones.
(<hi rend='italic'>A. Schmidt's</hi> Pariser Zustände, III, 22.)</note>
a small quota; or else the quantity of money
as compared with the amount of money needed for commerce
would have to be fixed very accurately; a thing of peculiar
difficulty in the case of paper money, which is almost costless.<note place='foot'>The
numbering of paper money. A state which should neglect this
would not only reserve to itself the possibility of an unlimited increase, but
would surrender all control of its officials charged with the emission of the
paper money. <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>, Trade and Money, 162, advises that a large
money reward should be paid to any one who should show the existence of a higher
number than allowed by law, or of a duplicate number. And indeed, as
comptroller-in-chief, he caused the <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>prévôt
des marchands</foreign> to be removed, because charged with the duty of burning
the paper withdrawn from circulation, he (the <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>prévôt</foreign>) noticed that the same number reappeared
several times.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='446'/><anchor id='Pg446'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section III. Kinds Of Redemption.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section III.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section III.</head>
<head>Kinds Of Redemption.</head>

<p>
While precious metal money carries, so to speak, by far the
greater portion of its value in itself, and this to such an extent
that it appears on the inscription found on its face, the inscription
found on paper money is almost the only reason of its
value.<note place='foot'>If a traveler wished to pay his inn-keeper in the note of a
bank entirely unknown in the place, the latter would certainly refuse it. If, on the other
hand, the traveler were to offer him a silver coin, the stamp and inscription
of which were not familiar, still it would be taken at the value of the metal
it contained, after deduction made of the costs of testing it, re-coining it, and
compensation for the trouble caused. Ignored by <hi rend='italic'>Berkeley</hi>, who,
indeed, considered metallic money nothing but <q>counters</q> or tickets (Querist, No.
23, 26, 441, 475), and who ascribes important advantages to paper money,&mdash;which
by <q>stamp</q> and <q>signature</q> is made as costly as gold (440)&mdash;over metallic
money (226).</note> (Credit-value.) The issuer promises in one form or another,
expressly or tacitly, that he intends to redeem the note,
almost valueless in itself, in real goods; and the value of this
promise depends on the probability of its fulfillment.<note place='foot'>Any
person who has witnessed a tax-execution, or sale of property for the non-payment of
taxes (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Stuerexecution</foreign>) will admit
that a tax receipt is at least as real goods as an umbrella or a glass window that
protects one from the storm. <hi rend='italic'>Michælis</hi> considers the amount of
running payments to the state for duties, taxes etc., as the only right basis for
full-value paper money. (Berliner Vierteljahrsschrift, 1863, III.) Better yet when
<hi rend='italic'>Höfken</hi> advises that only as much paper money should be issued as
amounted to the average balance (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Bestand</foreign>) in the national treasury. The tax-basis is
defended with great warmth by <hi rend='italic'>L. Stein</hi>. Louis XIV., in 1704
issued paper money bearing 7 per cent. interest, the acceptance of which by all the
royal officers of the treasury was prohibited! (<hi rend='italic'>Dutot</hi>,
Réflexions, 863, Daire.) <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi>, Trade and Money (1705) ascribes to
parcels of land the greatest constancy of value, because they cannot be replaced,
because they can be neither increased nor decreased, and because they help to produce all
other goods (p. 170). While silver cannot but depreciate, they have a prospect but to
rise (188). Hence <hi rend='italic'>Law</hi> recommended notes based on parcels of land
as the best money. (163, 191, 195.) Similarly, <hi rend='italic'>Benjamin Franklin</hi>,
Modest Inquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency: and the Paper Money of
Pennsylvania, New York and New Jersey was actually based on parcels of land, and was to
be extinguished by the enfeoffed owners, and the interest paid by them.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, Gesch. und Erdbeschreib, von N. Amerika, III, 621, IV,
649.)</note> The
only fully satisfactory kind of redemption consists in this, that
every holder of the paper money may, immediately on demand,
obtain its nominal value in good current metallic money.
This only can, in the long run, keep paper money up to its full
nominal value. But experience teaches that even with less perfect
modes of redemption, paper money may maintain a part of
its nominal value, and a part greater in proportion as the following
conditions are approximated to: freedom from personal
considerations, the immediateness of the redemption, and currency
of the goods by means of which redemption is effected.
Thus, for instance, the acceptance of paper money for all debts
due the state, in countries where taxation is heavy, where
there are large state industries etc.; where the lands of the
state are farmed out etc., has a great influence on its course of
exchange. Redemption in parcels of land is a very imperfect
<pb n='447'/><anchor id='Pg447'/>
one, not only on account of the great differences in the value
of pieces of land according to quality, situation, the times etc.,
but also because only a very small number of men, especially
where money is the usual medium of exchange, are in a condition
to accept parcels of land.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>F. Renonard de Ste
Croix</hi>, Voyage aux Indes orientales (1810), I, 32, describes
a species of paper money based on parcels of land which had lost 40
per cent. of its nominal value, although the holders of them were invested
with the fief at only one-half their value. The French <hi rend='italic'>mandats
territoriaux</hi> of 1796, declined in five months to 5 per cent. of their nominal
value, although they contained the provision that the holders might, without public sale
(<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Auction</foreign>), have a certain amount
of the national estates allotted to them in exchange for the <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>mandats</foreign>. The assignats were still more defective after
their redemption (at the <hi rend='italic'>Caisse de l'extraordinaire</hi>), which was
at first intended, and their drawing of interest were not fulfilled. Leaving the tax-basis
out of consideration, the notes might, at the sale of the national estates,
be brought in as means of payment: a thing which would not have been inoperative,
provided the amount of the paper money had been strictly limited to
the price of the pieces of land estimated in money. On the 1st of April, 1790,
400,000,000 francs in assignats were issued, and in September, 800,000,000
more, both together about equal to the secularized property of the church.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ad. Schmidt</hi>, Pariser Zustände, II, 97.) But as afterwards all
proportion between these two magnitudes ceased, or rather as up to January 1, 1793,
3,626,000,000 assignats were issued; up to September, 1794, over 8,800,000,000;
up to September, 1795, 19,700,000,000; and finally up to September, 1796,
45,578,000,000 francs, of which perhaps 6,500,000 were either burned or demonetized,
the price of the national estates on lands must naturally have
risen as vastly as the assignats declined.</note> It is a question whether the
<pb n='448'/><anchor id='Pg448'/>
threat of punishing the refusal to accept paper money, or to
accept it at its full nominal value, can be called a negative
mode of redemption. Certain it is, however, that it is the
most barbarous and in the long run the least efficient mode,
one in which the issuer calculates only on the fear of those
who accept it; and, what is most demoralizing, on the hope
they entertain that they in turn shall be able to dispose of it
to others as timid.<note place='foot'><p>The paper money issued by Colbert's successor,
Chamillard, soon lost on account of its too great amount, 25 per cent. of its value,
spite of the fact that it bore interest, and that ¼ of all payments to private persons
had to be made in it. (<hi rend='italic'>Forbonnais</hi>, Recherches et Considérations,
II, 182.) When the people of the United States, in 1775, issued paper money, it did not
decline in value up to the end of 1776, so long as the amount did not exceed
$20,000,000, as it was considered a matter of honor to take it at par. Afterwards,
when the amount issued continued to increase, not even the law that
a refusal to accept it, or insisting on taking it below par, should be punished
with the loss of the commodity, and that the guilty party should be declared
a national enemy, could keep it from declining in value; so that in May, 1871,
a dollar in specie was worth $200.5 in paper. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Franklin</hi>,
Works, ed. Sparks, II, 421, VIII, 328, 505.
</p>
<p>
France, during the Reign of Terror, on the 2d day of April 1793, threatened
the claiming of a discount in the taking of assignats with six years'
confinement in chains, and on the 1st day of August, on Couthon's motion,
with twenty years' confinement. In addition to this, maximum prices for
the principal necessities of life were fixed and the exceeding of them was punished
by severe penalties; and in France, and still more in the neighboring
conquered countries, there were many persons who preferred to take assignats
instead of payment rather than permit themselves to be robbed by requisitions.
And yet on the 4th of June, 1796, one franc in specie exchanged for
800 francs assignats. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, III (§ 58 ff.,
<hi rend='italic'>d'Ivernois</hi>, Etat. des Finances Française,
1796).</p></note><note place='foot'>The Prussian treasury notes of 1806, by virtue of a
decree published in 1807, were to be taken by all at a rate of exchange to be
officially published from time to time. Between December 1, 1807, and February 28, 1809,
the highest <q>normal course of exchange</q> was 71, and the lowest 27 per cent. In
January, 1815, a refusal to take them at par, except in certain cases, was
threatened with from 500 to 1,000 thalers of a money-fine or from 6 to 12
months' imprisonment. But indeed, in December, 1812, of 8,000,000 thalers,
there were only 731,625 still circulating. Compare § 7 of the decree of the
19th of January, 1813. In April, 1815, it was ordered that the half of all
taxes should be paid in such notes, or that if not, 8-½ per cent, should be
added as a penalty. This penalty, reduced in 1827 to 1 silver groschen,
was not formally abolished even in 1870, although it had long fallen into disuetude.
There was a run of the owners of the notes in 1830, for redemption,
and again in 1841 and 1848; in 1848 to the extent of at most 40,000
thalers in one day, and altogether not over 100,000 thalers.
(<hi rend='italic'>Bergius</hi>, in the Tübinger Zeitschr., 1870, 226 ff.) About 1846,
it was estimated that scarcely 1/250 a year of Prussian paper money was presented for
redemption, while ⅓ of the state receipts came in in the shape of paper money.
(<hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Archiv., V, 125, 207.) The Saxon treasury notes never lost
over 2 per cent., although the state treasury redeemed them up to 1804 only at an
<hi rend='italic'>agio</hi> of 9 <hi rend='italic'>pfennigs</hi> per thaler, and
afterwards of 1 <hi rend='italic'>pfennig</hi>.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='449'/><anchor id='Pg449'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section IV. Compulsory Circulation.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section IV.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section IV.</head>
<head>Compulsory Circulation.</head>

<p>
When paper money which is not completely redeemable&mdash;and
it is scarcely possible that in the long run it should be
thus redeemable&mdash;has sunk below its nominal value, the result
in the case of all private paper money is the bankruptcy (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Vermögensbruch</foreign>) of the individual issuing it; in the
case of state paper money, the legal provision that it shall have a compulsory
circulation (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Zwangcourse</foreign>;
<foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>cours forcé</foreign>).<note place='foot'>Those entitled to
make money claims are either compelled to accept the
paper money at its nominal value or only at its current value for the time
being. In the latter instance, the unjust compulsion is much smaller, but at
the same time the whole expedient is much less productive to the state; and
hence the former is the more usual. It was provided in Austria on the 22d
of May and the 2d of June, 1848, that the former should be the rule, and that
the latter should govern in cases in which gold or foreign silver had been
stipulated for. (<hi rend='italic'>Höfken</hi>, Oesterreichs Finanzprobleme, p. 53.) On
the 7th of February, 1856, it was permitted to contract by express promise for loans
in the metallic currency of the country, both for the interest and the repayment
of the principal. Hence a species of parallel-currency. If it be made
entirely impossible for private individuals to protect themselves against the
compulsory circulation of paper money, the more prudent are forced to send
their capital into foreign countries, which operates very disadvantageously to
poor countries especially. (<hi rend='italic'>Wagner</hi>, Tübing. Zeitschr., 1863,
441.)</note> To what extent
<pb n='450'/><anchor id='Pg450'/>
the real rate of exchange of paper money shall fall in any
case depends not only on the amount issued as compared with
the wants of trade, but also and still more on the degree of confidence
which the state of public affairs inspires.<note place='foot'>Thus, for
instance, the Frederick coins, and for a time the French assignats
were helped by the popular enthusiasm, while Gustavus III., of Sweden,
could give little value to his paper. (<hi rend='italic'>v. Struensee</hi>, Abh., III,
577.) In France, in 1796, 2,400,000,000 <hi rend='italic'>mandats</hi> were issued
instead of all the outstanding assignats; that is, as many as there were assignats at the
close of the year 1792. And yet the latter were then only 25 per cent. below par;
the former, before one month had elapsed, 80, and in nine months, almost 98
per cent. below par. (<hi rend='italic'>St Chamans</hi>, Nouvelle Essai sur la Richesse
des Nations, p. 150. <hi rend='italic'>A. Schmidt</hi>, Parisier Zustände, III, 121 ff.)
In Austria, in 1811, the volume of paper money was contracted, but in a manner so violent
and destructive of credit that its rate of exchange did not rise in consequence.
(Tub. Zeitschr., 1763, 1874.) After 1848, also, the rate of exchange
of Austrian paper money was much more perceptibly influenced by the
variations in the political state of affairs than by the changes in its volume.
(Tub. Zeitschr., 1856, 129.) In the summer and winter of 1866, about
650,000,000 paper rubles circulated, with scarcely any increase or decrease;
and yet the ratio of exchange was, during a part of the summer, 66, and in
winter, 84 per cent. of the silver value of the ruble. (<hi rend='italic'>Wagner</hi>,
Russ. Papierwährung, 74.) Instances in which the increase in the price of commodities
began to be more general only after the volume of paper money had
decreased; in Austria, in 1851 and 1866; in Russia, in 1857 (loc. cit).</note> The first
consequence attending a depreciated currency is, that the good
precious metal money is withdrawn from circulation and even
from the country; for the reason that it cannot maintain its
true value side by side with the paper money; the usual effect
in all untenable mixed standards or currencies.<note place='foot'>Then
precious metal money becomes a commodity of which great stores
may be collected in the country itself, at the banks, but chiefly for foreign
trade. It is said that Austrian business men in 1860 and the following years
invested <q>hoards</q> to the amount of several hundred million florins in exchange
on metallic-currency countries. (Tüb. Zeitschr., 422.) Good paper
money will never drive out the whole supply of cash money out of a country,
because a good portion must always be kept for purposes of redemption;
depreciated paper money operates much farther in this direction. Even the
exportation of small change may become a profitable speculation as soon as
the amount of depreciation of paper money exceeds the seigniorage. Then
usually small change of a worse kind is stamped, as, for instance, in Austria,
copper instead of silver; and in 1860, 12 millions florins of paper small
change. Here the exportation of the better money is not a consequence, but
the motive to the manufacturing of the worse.</note> A second, and
<pb n='451'/><anchor id='Pg451'/>
worse consequence is the unrightful revolution produced in so
many income and property relations, based on old contracts, to
the advantage of the debtor, to the disadvantage of the creditor,
and of those who receive nominally fixed salaries.<note place='foot'>During
the assignat-period it could happen that a land owner, after the
term for which he had farmed out his land, might be compelled to surrender
it to the farmers, for the reason that the taxes, requisitions, etc., paid by the
farmers, amounted to more than the farm rent. In the case of the former,
the calculation was based on the recent depreciated value of the assignats;
in the case of the latter, on the higher value the assignats had at the moment
that the contract was concluded. (<hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi>, Geldumlauf, III, 62.) A
writer in the Revue des deux Mondes, April 15, 1865, thinks that one reason why
the American civil war was so popular in the northwest was because the
paper money issued during the rebellion made it easy for that part of the
country to pay off the mortgage-debts which had burthened it since 1848.
Even of the two law catastrophes, <hi rend='italic'>Duclos</hi>, in his memoirs, remarks
that they produced a great admixture of those who had been formerly separated
by differences of class and wiped out the previous ideas of decorum, fitness,
etc.</note> These consequences are in kind similar to those produced by the clipping
of the coin; but in degree they are much more dangerous.<note place='foot'>During
the time that the clipping of the coin was practiced, it is scarcely
possible to show that money was debased below 11 per cent. of what its value
should have been. See, on the other hand, § <ref target="Section_3">3</ref>. In Austria,
in 1810, a person had to give 1,200 florins in paper money for 100 florins in silver.
(Tüb. Zeitschr., 1861, 593.) In North America, in 1781, it took $280 in paper to
purchase $1 in silver. (<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, Gesch. und Erdbeschreib., von
N.A., 1856, III, 580; IV, 440; V, 437.) During the American civil war, the paper money
of the Southern States declined to ½ (December, 1863) and even to 1/35 (October,
1864) of its nominal value. Compare <hi rend='italic'>Hock</hi>, Finanzen der V. Staaten,
514 ff. Observed even by <hi rend='italic'>Storch</hi>, Handbuch,
<hi rend='italic'>Rau's</hi> translation, III, 141 ff. (See, on the other hand,
<hi rend='italic'>C. King</hi>, Thoughts, p. 113.) In Paris in July, 1795,
the greater number of commodities estimated in assignats were worth as
much as if the rate of exchange of the latter was 6-14 per cent. of their
nominal value, while it actually amounted to only 3-½ per cent.</note>
Besides, the depreciation of paper produces, by no
means, an equal rise in the prices of all commodities. The
prices of those commodities, the sellers of which are most
favorably situated in the struggle for prices, rise earliest and
highest. This is true especially of foreign commodities, also
of those inland commodities which can be easily exported,
and most particularly of those commodities which have the
<pb n='452'/><anchor id='Pg452'/>
greatest capacity for circulation, for instance, gold and
silver.<note place='foot'>Where an <hi rend='italic'>agio</hi> of exchange of metallic
money as compared with paper is prohibited, the decline of the latter will manifest
itself not only in foreign rates of exchange, but also in the price of bars of the
precious metals.</note>
Hence, it would be a great mistake in countries where there
is an irredeemable paper currency with compulsory circulation,
to measure its purchasing power at a special discount as
compared with the precious metals. Therefore, a depreciated
paper currency has transitorily an effect on industry similar to
that of a protective tariff, and even as the payment of export
premiums; inasmuch as it enables manufacturers to permit a
part of their cost of production, viz.: that which they have to
pay their workmen, their older creditors, and in part, also,
their furnishers of raw material, to rise in a less degree than
the paper money has declined in value.<note place='foot'>The changes
of the agio or premium depend mainly on the supply and
demand of the precious metals, that is, on the extent and intensity of the business
transactions which have to be made in these metals themselves.
(<hi rend='italic'>Wagner,</hi> Russ. Papierw., 87.) Hence, for short periods of time,
it may be said in a paper currency country, that business transactions based on cash money
have a great element of variation in them. (<hi rend='italic'>Wagner</hi> in
<hi rend='italic'>Bluntschli's</hi> Staats-wörterbuch, III, 971.) The purchase and
lease-hold prices of fixed capital, of houses, for instance, rise much less because most
people look upon the distress as transitory, and of short duration. (<hi rend='italic'>A.
Walker</hi>, Sc. of W., 133.) In Austria in 1859, the rise of the agio of exchange of
silver from par to 40 per cent., and its subsequent fall within 7 months to 20 per
cent., left the price of coin almost entirely unaffected. (<hi rend='italic'>A.
Wagner</hi>, Gött. Anz., 1860, 114.) That country people in general suffer more from a
bad paper currency than the towns people and inhabitants of cities, see
<hi rend='italic'>Bonamy Price</hi>, Currency and Banking, 175, seq. In the northern
states of the American union, in 1864, 12 home kinds of commodities had risen 148 per
cent., 7 foreign kinds of commodities, 164 per cent., and 7 which could be obtained only
from the southern states, 353 per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>v. Hock</hi>, 186 seq.) As
too great issues of paper money are so frequently made on account of war, it is
comparatively easy to understand why it is that articles for which war creates a demand
should rise in price very soon and very high; while the very opposite happens
in times of taxation-distress, in the case of a great many articles of luxury,
which can readily be dispensed with. <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi> remarks (Werke, VII,
91), that retail dealers frequently raise their prices in order not to be obliged to
pay out so many small coins as change for the paper dollar.</note> This is indeed a very
inequitable advantage accorded to private individuals in the
<pb n='453'/><anchor id='Pg453'/>
face of the universal distress of the country.<note place='foot'>Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, N. Grundlegung, II, 241. Self-seeking undertakers
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Unternehmer</foreign> = men of enterprise)
have, on this account, both in Austria and Russia (<hi rend='italic'>Wagner</hi>, Russ.
P.W., 105), but more so in North America (<hi rend='italic'>v. Hock</hi>, 556 ff.),
opposed measures intended to restore values (<hi rend='italic'>Valuta</hi>), on the
ground that they were anti-national. Even <hi rend='italic'>Sperausky</hi> experienced
this in 1809, when he published very correct ideas on paper money, while in the
<q>fairy</q> times of Catherine II., no one even thought that state paper money
is a state debt. (<hi rend='italic'>Bernhardi</hi>, Russ. Geschichte, II, 2, 636.) One
of the principal representatives of this course is <hi rend='italic'>H. C. Carey</hi>,
Our Resources (1866), and in the New York Herald, 1865. On the other hand,
<hi rend='italic'>Faucher</hi> rightly calls the more active exportation of countries,
with a bad paper currency, an exportation of barbarous nations, the commerce of misery,
to which any price paid in metal or in any higher-standing product of civilization is
acceptable. (Vierteljahrsschrift, 1868, IV, 167.) The nation in the aggregate loses in
international trade for the simple reason that its foreign creditors will accept
its paper money at most at its current rate of exchange against specie, while foreign
debtors force it upon the nation at its nominal value.</note><note place='foot'>The
different provinces also of a large empire may have very different
degrees of depreciation of the same paper money. Thus, in the interior of
Russia its rate of exchange against specie had for a long time not declined
beyond 50 per cent. of its nominal value; while the foreign rate of exchange
supposed a decline to 33-⅓ per cent. (<hi rend='italic'>Cancrin</hi>, Weltreichthum,
68.)</note> And these bad
consequences are aggravated by the downward-path principle
which a depreciated paper money always involves. The
state whose financial distress introduced the evil, sees a great
portion of its revenues melt away before its eyes;<note place='foot'>An enhancement of
duties, taxes (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Abgaben</foreign>) etc.,
will seldom be able to
progress in the same measure as the paper money sinks; in any case, a law
would be necessary to effect this, which, however, comes always later than
the decline. (<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, Du Papier Monnaie, 27.)</note> while in
what concerns its outlay, nothing is more calculated to mislead
it than such an imagined creation out of nothing. And a
thing which greatly contributes to this its the frightful sensitiveness
of a depreciated paper currency in the presence of
complications of foreign politics, a quality which may cause
the government as many inconveniences from without as the issue of its paper money
produced conveniences to it at home.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Wagner</hi>,
Russische Papierwährung, 142, estimates that the Crimean war
depreciated the average current rate of exchange of Russian paper money
by 11.1 per cent., the Italian war of 1859 by 14.5 per cent., the German war
of 1866 by 19.4 per cent., spite of the fact that Russia did not participate directly
in the last two wars.</note>
<pb n='454'/><anchor id='Pg454'/>
Hence recourse is had to additional issues of paper, which are
easily increased in the same measure as the rate of exchange
(<hi rend='italic'>Cours</hi>) has declined.<note place='foot'>The
more than forty-five milliards French assignats, estimated at their
rates current, really produced to the state only about six milliards.
(<hi rend='italic'>Gentz</hi>, Histor. Journ., 1800, II, 317, after
<hi rend='italic'>Lecoulteux</hi>.)</note> Great private interests operate in the
same direction. Between the increase of the volume of the
paper currency in circulation and its consequent depreciation,
some time always elapses; and in the mean time, either the
purchasing power of the money-owner or his loaning capital
is really greater than before. The former increases the demand
for commodities, the latter facilitates their coming into
existence. However, the flight of speculation with which the
increase of paper money is wont to be accompanied<note place='foot'>Very well
explained by <hi rend='italic'>H. Thornton</hi>, Paper Credit of Great Britain, ch.
10. As to how, in Austria, the paper-money crisis contributed to bring the
rigid national resources into a molten state, and to shake off the national inertia
by the feeling of insecurity, see <hi rend='italic'>Buquoy</hi>, Theorie d. Wirthschaft,
1816, 347 ff. <hi rend='italic'>Schäffle</hi>, System, 3 aufl., 254 seq., thinks that
if Austria should first adjust its values, and then, in case of another war, have
recourse to a second depreciation, the disastrous disturbances of its national economy
consequent herein would be produced twice instead of once, and not without
reason.</note> in the
beginning depends on an error shared by many men as to its
true value. Hence it does not last long, and the critical shriveling
up of the inflated bubbles is greater in proportion to
what the previous dimensions of these bubbles were. And
now many believe that the nation's business or economy
might be kept on its course by new emissions of paper money;
and the wise ones hope, at least, to be able thereby to postpone
the catastrophe long enough to enable themselves to get
their property into a safe condition. And in fact, the restoration
of a depreciated currency is accompanied by crises entirely
similar to those which followed its first decline; only
they are in an opposite direction.<note place='foot'>The Prussian
treasury-bills stood, in June, 1809, at 36 per cent. of their
nominal value; June, 1810, 84-½ per cent.; January, 1812, 13-½; December,
1812, 44-½; June, 1813, 26-½; July, 1813, 24-½; December 31, 1813, 49-½;
January, 1815, 88; January 5, 1816, 99 per cent. Austrian paper money expressed
in terms of metallic money, amounted, on an average, between 1849
and 1855, to 292,000,000 florins: but at certain moments, it fluctuated from
231,000,000 to 337,000,000. (Tübing. Zeitschr., 1856, 124.) The agio of
silver fluctuated during the <hi rend='italic'>Bancozettel</hi> (bank-billets, a species
of Austrian paper money) period from one day to another on Change 40 and even 100 per
cent.: thus, on the news of Napoleon's entry into Paris, between the 25th of
March and the 4th of April, from 330 to 440; on the receipt of the news of
the result of the battle of Waterloo, in three days, from 458 to 412; after
Napoleon's abdication, from 412 to 320. (<hi rend='italic'>Gentz</hi>, Werke, V, 62.)
<hi rend='italic'>Huskisson</hi>
rightly calls a depreciated paper currency a much worse thing than clipped
coin: the clipping of the coin is, so to speak, one great blow after which
people can again calculate with certainty; but bad paper money is one continual
fluctuation.</note> And hence conscientious
<pb n='455'/><anchor id='Pg455'/>
statesmen are frequently deterred from seeking to effect such
a restoration. Yet the darkest side of a paper currency severed
of due connection with precious metal-money consists in
the frequent and violent fluctuations of value to which it is
subject.<note place='foot'><q>The only difference here is that it is not
left to individuals to say whether they will join in the game or not.</q>
(<hi rend='italic'>Helferich.</hi>)</note> The consequence of these fluctuations is, that
every commercial transaction, every credit-transaction, and
even every act of saving, in which money plays any part, is
made to bear the impress of a game of chance;<note place='foot'>During
the later assignat-period every house was full of commodities,
every pocket of samples; every <q>exquisite</q> and every lady was a merchant,
because no one had any further confidence in the money. People had retrograded
to the barbarous condition of trade by barter. (<hi rend='italic'>Goncourt</hi>,
Histoire de la Société française pendant le Directoire, 1854.) The French constitution
of 1795 fixed the salaries of members of the Directory at the value of 50,000
<hi rend='italic'>myriogrammes</hi> of wheat (art. 173, 68). In Delaware, while the
depreciation of paper money lasted, farm rent was usually required to be paid in produce.
(<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, V, 37.)</note> a consequence
of far and deep reaching influence, especially in the
higher stages of civilization, where the importance of commerce,
of the credit-system, and of money-economy as contradistinguished
from barter-economy is so great; producing
there a state of uncertainty which is otherwise peculiar only
<pb n='456'/><anchor id='Pg456'/>
to barbarous medieval times.<note place='foot'><q>Of all contrivances
for cheating mankind, none has been more effectual than that which deludes
them with paper money.</q> (<hi rend='italic'>D. Webster.</hi>) The
American Secretary of the Treasury, <hi rend='italic'>McCulloch</hi>, says, in the
report of December 7, 1868, of the legal tender notes: <q>there can be no doubt that
these acts have tended to blunt and deaden the public conscience, and they are
chargeable in no small degree with the demoralization which so generally
prevails.</q> <hi rend='italic'>Niebuhr</hi> attributes the decline of old Spanish
honesty which was formerly so much relied on in all great money centers, principally to
the <hi rend='italic'>vales</hi>. (Nichtphilol. Nachlass, 489.)</note> All this
discourages the best business men and the best husbandmen more than it does
any other class of people, and demoralizes the whole economy
of a nation; and demoralizes it the more in proportion as it is
easier for the state to influence the value of paper money as
compared with specie, and as its influence is more irresistible.<note place='foot'>This
calls to our mind the impersonal mass-crimes to which our own
times so frightfully incline, when many a man who would recoil in horror
from an ordinary act of pocket-picking or from manslaughter with intent to
commit larceny, robs thousands in cold blood by means of a swindling enterprise,
or, for the sake of a fraudulent insurance, destroys the lives of a
whole ship's crew.</note>
The compulsory circulation of paper money is a much more
powerful and yet a much more simple screw by means of
which to practice extortion than is the most burdensome taxation
or forced loan, and at the same time the most comprehensive
power which a government can possess to carry out
both these measures. (<hi rend='italic'>Ad. Wagner.</hi>)
</p>

<p>
All the horrors of the later Roman republic, the draining
of the provinces by robber-governors with their publicans
and sinners, the building up of monstrous fortunes without
any production proper, but through usury and rapine alone:
all this is made to revive again through the instrumentality of
the national-economic disease called a paper crisis, in a less
violent form, indeed, but in one which is much more insidious
and scarcely less pernicious.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='457'/><anchor id='Pg457'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section V. Resumption Of Specie Payments.'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section V.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section V.</head>
<head>Resumption Of Specie Payments.</head>

<p>
The healing of such a paper-money disease as we have described,
it has been endeavored to effect in three ways more
particularly.
</p>

<p>
A. By the reduction or bringing back of the depreciated
paper money to its full nominal value. And this is best done
by gradually drawing paper money into the state treasury by
means of taxation or by loans, and refusing to allow such paper
money to be again issued. The consequent rise in the
rate at which the outstanding paper money notes exchange
against specie is produced not only by the diminution of the
quantity of paper in circulation, but also by the increasing
confidence in the future which such a governmental measure
inspires.<note place='foot'>Saxon loans of two million thalers treasury notes
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Kassenbillets</foreign>), August,
1813, which were then to bear interest in silver and to be paid in silver. The
purchase of the precious metals, or loans made by the state in foreign countries,
with the intention of redeeming paper money, effect the same end at a
much greater cost. (<hi rend='italic'>Peschel</hi>, D. Vierteljahrsschrift, 1858,
III, 254.) If the currency consists of bank notes endowed by the state with compulsory
circulation and an irredeemable character, such a metallic loan made in order
to reimburse the bank for a loan to the state in depreciated notes is a gift
made to the bank without reason; and the metallic money brought into the
country flows back into foreign parts when the bank restriction is removed,
because it, together with the appreciated notes, creates a too abundant
circulation.</note> While this mode of procedure has in the abstract
most in its favor, yet it is not to be recommended in practice
except where the depreciation of paper money has either not
gone very far or where it has existed only a short time.<note place='foot'>Although
in England the suspension of the redemption of notes had
lasted from 1797 to 1819, depreciation of notes during the greater part of this
time either did not occur at all (Summer of 1797 to 1799, 1802 ff.) or was very
small; and even during the last five war years, it did not amount to much
over 30 per cent. About 1817, the notes of themselves again rose to par,
and had lost but little during the following years, in consequence of the great
loans of the continental powers in the English market. Under such circumstances, the
repeated promise of the state to make the notes redeemable at
their full nominal value was certainly a cogent reason for the Peel's Act of
1819. In favor hereof are especially <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi>, Hist. of Prices, II,
p. 60 ff., and <hi rend='italic'>J. S. Mill</hi>, Principles, III, ch. 13. Opposed to
it, the so-called Birmingham-Atwood school and also <hi rend='italic'>Lord
Ashburton</hi>, in his statement before the Agricultural Committee, 1836. But according
to <hi rend='italic'>Rob. Muschet</hi>, Tables, exhibiting
the Gain and Loss to the Bondholders arising from the Fluctuations in
the Value of the Currency (1826), the state creditors, on the whole, lost more
by the depreciation of the notes than they gained by their subsequent rise.
<hi rend='italic'>Ad. Wagner</hi> also is decidedly in favor of the course A.</note>
<pb n='458'/><anchor id='Pg458'/>
Otherwise the revolution in all property-relations and the disturbance
of all rightful speculation&mdash;always dangerous and
easily abused&mdash;produced by the depreciation would be repeated
by the restoration of values, with this difference only
that the disturbance would be produced the second time in an
opposite direction. And that those who were previously injured
should now be compensated for the damage sustained in
the first instance is impossible in proportion as the depreciation
has been of longer duration. Many of the sufferers from the
effects of depreciation are now compelled, even as tax-payers,
to contribute to the enrichment of the speculators who have
accumulated the depreciated paper into their own hands.
</p>

<p>
B. The extreme opposite of such a course would consist in
this, that the depreciated paper should be allowed to go on
sinking lower and lower until it was practically worthless,
whereupon a new currency, whether of metal or paper,
would have to appear like a new world after the waters of a
deluge had been abated. Hence, therefore, one of two things:
universal bankruptcy entered into with the clearest purpose,
or the resignation of despair!<note place='foot'>This has
occurred not unfrequently in the case of the paper money of
subdued revolt: thus, for instance, the Hungarian of 1849; in the case of the
Southern Confederacy. But the assignats, too, came to this end, although,
according to <hi rend='italic'>Büsch</hi> (Werke IX, 526), the intentions of the country
at first were good; and in Austria, in 1810, many prophecies looking in this direction
were made. (Per contra <hi rend='italic'>Rehberg</hi>, Sämmtl. Schriften. IV, 334.) Not
very differently did it fare with the Swedish coin-tokens (<foreign lang='de'
rend='font-style: italic'>Münzzeichen</foreign>) of Charles XII, which were altered 7
times between 1715 and 1718; and where besides, the tokens called in in a much too short
space of time were transformed into small change coins 1/32 their value hitherto.
(<hi rend='italic'>Brückner</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>Hildebrand's</hi>
Jahrb. 1864, I, 161, ff.)</note>
</p>

<pb n='459'/><anchor id='Pg459'/>

<p>
C. The middle course between these two has, therefore, been
most frequently pursued, viz.: <hi rend='italic'>the legal reduction</hi> of the value of
the coin (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>gesetzliche Devalvirung</foreign>),
which consists in reducing
the nominal value of paper money to its current value at the
moment the law goes into force, and by redeeming it either in
specie or in other paper to be issued in smaller quantities.<note place='foot'>Thus
it was, for instance, in Austria, in 1811 and 1820, at 1/5 and 2/5 of the
nominal value, in 1799 in the United States, in 1813 in Denmark with the
currency notes (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Courantzettel</foreign>),
in 1816 in Norway with the royal bank dollar notes, in Sweden in 1814 with the bank
notes (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Bancozetteln</foreign>) at 37-½ per
cent., in 1839 in Russia with the <hi rend='italic'>bankassignationen</hi>, at 2/7 of
their nominal value. Of theoretical writers this course is recommended among others by
<hi rend='italic'>Jacob</hi>, Staatsfinanzwissenschaft, § 980 ff.;
<hi rend='italic'>Nebenius</hi>, Œff. Credit, 2 Aufl., ff.; Deutsche
Vierteljahrsschrift, 1841, I, 65; <hi rend='italic'>Rau</hi>, Lehrbuch, III, § 528;
<hi rend='italic'>Helferich</hi>, Tüb. Ztschr., 1856, 435 ff. According to
<hi rend='italic'>v. Rotteck</hi>, Lehrbuch, IV
402, it may be assumed that paper money is spread among the people of a
country in proportion to their resources: which is also the hypothesis on
which all direct taxation is based. Hence the gradual depreciation of paper
money operates like the imposition of a tax and the <emph>reduction of value</emph>
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Deralvirung</foreign>)
is, so to speak, only the release of the same. Besides <hi rend='italic'>Gentz</hi>
(Werke by Schlezier, IV, 58) shows from the example of Austria in 1811,
that in the case of the taking up of a depreciated paper currency it makes a
better impression to give 100 florins in specie for 1,000 florins in paper, than
200 florins in a new kind of paper. The holders of the old paper money have
now lost confidence in all paper currency. Of similar import is the immediate
abolition of the compulsory circulation of paper money at its nominal
value (<hi rend='italic'>Prince Smith</hi> in <hi rend='italic'>Faucher's</hi>
Vierteljahrsschrift, VII, 126 ff.), and the introduction
of compulsory circulation in accordance with the day's quotations
of the actual value of the paper as compared with specie.
(<hi rend='italic'>Strache</hi>, Die Valuta in Œsterreich, 1861;
<hi rend='italic'>per contra</hi>, <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Wagner</hi>, Tüb. Zeitschr.,
1861, 606 ff.)</note> Although
this has been not seldom based on the false principle
that the value of every separate amount of money is inversely
as the aggregate amount of all the money in circulation; yet
it cannot be questioned that it is only the open declaration of
the state bankruptcy which the whole measure involves, and
which in most instances has already happened beyond repair.
Here there is no new and dangerous disturbance of the nation's
economy whatever; and the fluctuations of value in the
<pb n='460'/><anchor id='Pg460'/>
future which are inseparable from the gradual contraction of
the volume of paper, continued until it has reached its nominal
value, are avoided: this last, of course, only on the supposition
that either the pure metallic or the redeemable paper
currency is rigidly adhered to.<note place='foot'>Such measures
as were adopted in Austria, in 1811, where a <q>redemption
and extinction deputation,</q> independent of the government was established
and sworn to prevent a further increase of paper money, are not sufficient
of themselves alone.</note> But the problem, how to protect
both parties<note place='foot'>The Code Civil
(art. 1895) makes the nominal value entirely conclusive;
so, also, the Prussian Landrecht (I, § 790): which is to proclaim the omnipotence
and infallibility of the state power in the most ingenuous or else in
the most brutal manner. The power given by <hi rend='italic'>Puchta</hi> to metallic
value (Pandecten, VII, aufl., § 38) is applicable neither to paper money nor to small
coin; and it ignores entirely that stamped coins and currency money are
something different from mere metallic commodities and even from metallic
bars. The Austrian civil law (<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>bürgerliche
Gesetzbuch</foreign>) decides in favor of the current value (986 seq.):
a view which most modern jurists since <hi rend='italic'>Savigny</hi>
(Obligationenrecht, I, 404; earlier yet, <hi rend='italic'>Hufeland</hi>, Ueber die
rechtliche Natur des Geldschulden, 180) entertain. But they even fail to recognize that
the depreciation, for instance, of paper money as compared with specie and general
decrease of purchasing power are identical only in the case of such
paper money or reduced coins which have no compulsory circulation. (<hi rend='italic'>A.
Wagner</hi>, Tüb. Ztschr., 1863, 478 ff.)</note> to contracts entered into at a rate of
the currency different from that under which they are to be performed,
from all damage, is one which will never be perfectly solved.
Hence, of the different measures to economically preserve a
state in cases of extraordinary need, the emission of paper
money with compulsory circulation is much more universally
disastrous to the people than the effecting of loans at the very
highest rate of interest, and even than being in arrears in the
matter of paying the officials and creditors of the state.<note place='foot'>Let
us suppose that at the moment the state could perform its duty to
its servants only to the extent of one half. If it should frankly admit this,
pay one-half in good money and remain in debt for the other half, it might
subsequently, in better times, make good to them or to their heirs what it
had now refused; and thus private credit, from the disturbance of which the
state can only suffer, suffer no diminution. Both are quite different when
the state disguises its insolvency under the mask of apparent full payment
in paper money which has lost 50 per cent. of its nominal value. In opposition
to the myth that the assignats saved France, see <hi rend='italic'>Levasseur</hi>, in the
Acad. des Sc. m. et. p.</note>
</p>

</div>

<pb n='461'/><anchor id='Pg461'/>

<div>
<index index='toc' level1='Section VI. Paper Money&mdash;A Curse Or A Blessing?'/>
<index index='pdf' level1='Section VI.'/>
<head type='sub'>Section VI.</head>
<head>Paper Money&mdash;A Curse Or A Blessing?</head>

<p>
Considering the double-edged-sword character of this
mighty instrument,<note place='foot'>It not
unfrequently happens that a nation's paper money has been directly
or indirectly affected by an unfriendly state. Thus for instance, England, in
1794, tolerated an assignat manufactory at Lambeth, while Frenchmen imitated
English bank notes. (<hi rend='italic'>Archenholz</hi>, Aenalen XI, 429.) Napoleon in
1812 issued forged Russian bank notes. (<hi rend='italic'>Cancrin</hi>, Œconomie der
menschl. Gesellschaft, 136. <hi rend='italic'>Niebuhr</hi>, Gesch. der Revolution, II,
314.) When Maria Theresa first wished to introduce paper money, Bolza, her minister of
finance, in his urgent appeal to her to desist from adopting such a measure,
foretold the subsequent bankruptcy etc. (<hi rend='italic'>Mailath</hi>, Oesterr.
Gesch., V., 83.) <hi rend='italic'>Adam Smith</hi> compares gold and silver circulation
to a highway which, indeed, produces nothing directly. Paper money is an advance similar
to that which would be produced by the construction of a machine adapted to the
carriage of persons and goods through the air, and which permit the highways
hitherto used to be turned into meadows, arable land etc. <hi rend='italic'>Ad. Smith</hi>
very strongly emphasizes the insecurity of these <q>Dædalian wings</q> as compared
with the <q>solid ground of gold and silver,</q> especially in the transitory
misfortune produced by war. (W. of N., II, p. 78, Bas.) <hi rend='italic'>David Hume</hi>
says of all paper media of exchange, that they share all the harmfulness of an increase
of specie money, enhancement of the price of commodities, aggravation
of the obstacles to exportation; but that they do not share in the useful
properties of specie money. (Discourses, On Money and on the Balance of
Trade.) The younger <hi rend='italic'>Mirabeau</hi> kept Necker from pursuing his plan
to issue paper money with the words: <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>du
papier monnaie c'est la peste circulante!</foreign> Inconsistent
as Napoleon was in his bank policy (compare <hi rend='italic'>Horn</hi>, Bankfreiheit,
304), he always rejected paper money. As in 1805 he wrote to the minister
of justice: <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>je ne veut pas de papier
monnaie</foreign>: so, in opposition to the minister of the interior, he in 1810
compared it to the plague: <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>le plus
grandfléau des nations</foreign>. (Acad. des Sciences m. et p., 1864, II, 212.)
<hi rend='italic'>Sismondi</hi>, too, compares paper money to the paper cannons of the
Chinese, which render a cheap service until the hour of danger comes. (N. Principles,
II, 107.) Of the banks he says: <foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>les
avantages aussi-legers les dangers aussi graves</foreign>. (Eludes,
II. 421). <hi rend='italic'>Cancrin</hi>, Œkonomie der menschl. Gesellschaft, 1845, 152
ff., says he thinks that possibly it might have been well never to have established
banks, but that yet the craving for the new is preponderately good, it brings
inventions and improvements with it. Even <hi rend='italic'>Tooke</hi> considers the
insecurity of paper money a disadvantage which more than counterbalances its cheapness.
(Considerations on the State of the Currency, 1829, 85.) On the
doubts of <hi rend='italic'>Jefferson</hi> and <hi rend='italic'>Gallatin</hi>, see
<hi rend='italic'>Wolowski</hi>, Enquête, 170, seq. <hi rend='italic'>Webster</hi>
called paper money <q>the most effectual of inventions to fertilize the rich
man's field by the sweat of the poor man's brow.</q> <foreign lang='fr'
rend='font-style: italic'>Tout papier monnaie par lui même est un mensonage.</foreign>
(<hi rend='italic'>M. Chevalier</hi>, Cours, III, 428.) <hi rend='italic'>M.
Niebuhr</hi> calls banks a poison which should be used with moderation. (Bankrevolution
und Bankreform, 1846, 37.) Compare the writers named in §
<ref target="Section_2">2</ref>.</note> and the frightful consequences which its
<pb n='462'/><anchor id='Pg462'/>
abuse produces, it is easy to conceive why so many political
economists have expressed such serious doubts as to whether,
on the whole, the invention of paper money has been more of
a curse or of a blessing to mankind. The controversy is
an idle one to a certain extent, since no mature nation (or individual),
and no nation which considers itself mature will renounce
the possibility of a brilliant growth simply because it
fears that it may not be able to withstand the temptations to dangerous
abuse connected therewith. Politically, the best safeguard
against such temptation is a so-called moderate constitution,
which compels the supreme power in the state by
wise and appropriate counterweights, to allow all rightful interests
to assert themselves, or at least to find expression;
and itself to make use not only of the most skillful but also of
the most highly esteemed instruments and measures. Such
a constitution, indeed, cannot be made; it must be the ripe
fruit of a long continued and well conducted national life.<note place='foot'><foreign
lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>Avec la liberté un peuple n'a jamais de mauvaises
monnaies</foreign> (<hi rend='italic'>F. Lenormant</hi>): entirely so, provided
<foreign lang='fr' rend='font-style: italic'>liberté</foreign> be translated <q>true
and insured freedom.</q></note>
Of the extremes of forms of government, unlimited monarchy
and democracy are about equally exposed to the paper-money
disease.<note place='foot'>Law's giddy projects under
the regents of Orleans and the assignats of the first republic; Austria, Russia and the
United States; the Danish absolute monarchy, and Sweden, both under Charles XII., and
its oligarchical times. The history of Rhode Island paper money is peculiarly scandalous.
All debts had to be paid within two years, or to be held invalid, and juries
were dispensed with in such cases. (<hi rend='italic'>Ebeling</hi>, Gesch. und
Erdbeschreib. von N. America, II, 173 ff.)</note> Aristocracies are less exposed to it,
for the reason that from their very nature they eschew centralization; and the
<pb n='463'/><anchor id='Pg463'/>
paper-money system is intimately connected with the latter.
Nothing so strengthens the central authority as the paper-prerogative
with an unlimited power over the prices of all commodities;
and, on the other hand, whenever paper money is to have a wide
field for action, there is supposed<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>Ad. Müller</hi>
compares <q>cosmopolitan</q> metallic money to a universal language:
paper money ties one to the country, as people do not like to travel
in foreign parts when they understand only their native language. As paper
money compels subjects to take an interest in the state, a state like Austria
would act very foolishly if it should begin its reorganization by enhancing
its depreciated values (<hi rend='italic'>Valuta</hi>). (Elemente der Staatskunst, 180,
III, 171; II, 339 ff.) Even in 1830, he found fault with the Austrian loan for the payment
of the paper money. (Briefwechsel mit Gentz, 321 seq.) He lauded
paper money because he claimed it led a country back to the barter And
service-economy of the middle ages. (Verm. Schriften, I, 59 ff.) Similarly,
<hi rend='italic'>Gentz</hi>, in his later writings. Compare
<hi rend='italic'>Roscher</hi>, Gesch., der N. Œk., in
Deutschland, II, 762.</note> a far-reaching
and intimate interwearing of the different members of the
nation's economy with one another. And in what concerns
the various economic stages, paper money is far removed from
all medieval times; and for the same reasons that make external
commerce here preponderant and condense all commerce into
caravans, staple-towns, fairs, and recommend the collection of
treasure etc.<note place='foot'>Who, for instance, would lay by a paper dollar in the
savings bank for his godchild? In this respect, too, oriental countries have preserved
much of the medieval. Concerning the aversion of the Egyptians of our day for
all paper money, see <hi rend='italic'>Stephan</hi>, Ægypten, 250 seq. This is all the
more surprising since during several months after the harvest, there are from 4,000,000
to 8,000,000 piasters in specie sent every day from Alexandria by post to
private individuals in the provinces. In addition to this there is the immense
difference in the French, English and Austrian coins circulating in the country,
and which have very different rates in the different provinces. It is still
worse in Arabia. (<hi rend='italic'>v. Maltzan</hi>, Reise, I, 27.)</note>
Later, on the other hand, we find two stages
especially adapted to paper money. We have first, as yet undeveloped
but intellectually active (and therefore desirous of progress) colonial countries,
possessed in abundance of natural means of production without however
being able to concentrate them into the hands of an undertaker
(<foreign lang='de' rend='font-style: italic'>Unternehmer</foreign>) for
<pb n='464'/><anchor id='Pg464'/>
want of money.<note place='foot'>Compare <hi rend='italic'>v. Schlozer</hi>,
Anfangsgründe, I, 140 ff. <hi rend='italic'>M. Niebuhr</hi> (Rau's Archiv.
N.F. II, 125) finds paper money best adapted to countries without
any exchange-trade, but which at the same time require a species of money
easily computed and easy of transportation (Russia); countries whose national
economy has an extraordinarily rapid growth (the United States); and
in unusually solid countries (Scotland).</note> Here both the saving of the precious
metals and the facilitation of transportation effected by means of
paper money are of greatest utility. And then we have very
highly developed and rich countries; not only because their
economic popular education may protect them against the
dangers of paper money, but because the rich man has relatively
least need of money and may dispense with stores of
specie most readily, because of his influence over the supply
of others.<note place='foot'><hi rend='italic'>List</hi>, Nat. System der politischen
Œk., I, 394. A private individual of
small means who should go on his travels without money would be subject
to all sorts of annoyances; a king or a Rothschild, just as soon as he was
recognized as such, would find credit everywhere. Thus, English businessmen
have outstanding claims in all parts of the world, which might without
any great difficulty be called in in the precious metals. The more the
division of labor is developed, the better may the condition of a nation's
whole economy be seen reflected in the course of its banking system and its
exportation and importation.</note>
</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div id="footnotes">
    <index index="toc" />
    <index index="pdf" />
    <head>Footnotes</head>
    <divGen type="footnotes"/>
  </div>
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
